# 2024-09-03 Contributor Call - US/EMEA

  

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09](https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09))

EMEA Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220607T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220607T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 8 am Tuesday Los Angeles time
- 11 am Tuesday New York time
- 17h Tuesday Paris time

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - Matt Whitehead permissions in Github unable to assign tickets - Matt to check with Sally on permissions 
  - Matt Whitehead provided an update on the Bonsai Archive solution developed 
    - Basic support first that the team wants to use to gather data on storage versus latency trade-offs in the checkpointing strategy. We ideally make this user configurable with a sensible default. 
  - Indy on Besu Meetup - September 24th
  - Discussed naming change - maintainers want clarity on the mechanics of removing the Hyperledger name from the actual code-bases and namespaces. How does this play out? Matt to get clarity  
    - Do we have a complete list of impacted areas?
      - Docker
      - Git
      - Plug-Ins
      - Releases 
      - Homebrew
      - Maven
      - Twitter
      - Package names
      - Documentation
    - Can we do a staged rollout of just the branding and then the code-base? 
    - Discussions in #besu-contributors
  - Sunset plan to move forward starting September 11th 
- **Roadmap Review** 
  - [Besu Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=22154278)
- **Release updates**
  - 24.9.0 - small functional regression that is being patched before release 
- **Work Updates**
  - Bonsai archive support update
- **Other Business**
  - Review CI credit usage and build time for the month [https://app.circleci.com/insights/gh/hyperledger](https://app.circleci.com/insights/gh/hyperledger)
  - Git issue assignment (permission to assign to someone)
  - /add item/
- **Open Forum**
  - /add item/
- **Future Topics**
  - /add item/

**Recordings**

Find the recording in the playlist - [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0MZ85B\_96CHpqsKmljUK8HB98wK67RjC](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0MZ85B_96CHpqsKmljUK8HB98wK67RjC)

   

|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |

No files shared here yet.

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description