# 2022-01-11 Besu Contributor Call - Off-Cycle

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09#success](https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09#success)

EMEA/AMER Friendly Time -  ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 11 AM Tuesday San Francisco
- 2 PM Tuesday New York
- 5 PM Tuesday UTC
- 8 PM Tuesday Paris/Berlin

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature

**Discussion Topics:**

1. **ConsenSys team to review Danno and Antoine's proposals regarding decentralizing management of funds.** Several of the ConsenSys maintainers reviewed the proposals. I also reviewed. We've come up with a [revised proposal](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Near-Term+Besu+Incentive+Program+proposal) to try to address our near-term needs while giving us time to fully formulate a long-term solution. We tried to incorporate elements from the other proposals and also wanted to consolidate our feedback into one proposal rather than sharing disjointed comments.

2. **Share the details of the EF's Incentive program on a Wiki page:** Sajida drafted up an overview of the program. It can be found [here](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Besu+Execution+Client+Incentive+Program).  
   
3. **Share the Validator Nodes requirements:** I just published the recommendations [here](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=22155212). The ConsenSys team pulled together its high-level requirements. We are happy to have a conversation about this with the folks who are interested.  
    
**4\. Community Practices Improvements**: Apologies, I have been out sick a few days this week so I haven't made as much progress on implementing some of these as I hoped this week. I will be following up on them early next week. However, Sajida has gone ahead and published a draft [Besu Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap) for 2022, which is a great start.

  

**View recording:** 

    **|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155135/Besu+PKI+Support.pdf?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155135&fileName=Besu+PKI+Support.pdf&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155135&fileName=Besu+PKI+Support.pdf) | PDF File [Besu PKI Support.pdf](/wiki/download/attachments/22155135/Besu%20PKI%20Support.pdf?api=v2) | Dec 21, 2021 by [Francesco Andreoli](/wiki/people/610104864e8d8d0069291688) |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155135/Besu+2022+JAN+11.txt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155135&fileName=Besu+2022+JAN+11.txt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155135&fileName=Besu+2022+JAN+11.txt) | Text File [Besu 2022 JAN 11.txt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155135/Besu%202022%20JAN%2011.txt?api=v2) | Jan 11, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description  

[Download All](/wiki/download/all_attachments?pageId=22155135)**