# 2022-10-25 Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09](https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09))

EMEA Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220607T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220607T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 8 am Tuesday Los Angeles time
- 11 am Tuesday New York time
- 17h Tuesday Paris time

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - CI ([Matt Nelson (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6092a453afcdb700691fdc3b?ref=confluence) )
    - Delaying circle CI deprecation
      - 2-4 million credits we burn per month 
      - We have about 4 million credits remaining (likely till the end of November) 
      - Discussion on buying 4m additional credits (follow-up offline [Ry Jones](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850?ref=confluence) [Hart Montgomery](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:86f447c0-86dc-43b3-ac03-6a31923bbb84?ref=confluence) [Matt Nelson (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6092a453afcdb700691fdc3b?ref=confluence) )
    - GH Actions
      - Tests are too big for GHA 
      - Hyperledger is buying hardware to run the tests on GHA 
    - Blocker for Java 17? 
      - re-surface this for the next call
  - Besu bounty programs/security audits ([Hart Montgomery](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:86f447c0-86dc-43b3-ac03-6a31923bbb84?ref=confluence))
    - Hart to coordinate with Tim and bring it back to the team
  - Meeting with LaCChain regarding possible interest in contributing to Besu ([Hart Montgomery](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:86f447c0-86dc-43b3-ac03-6a31923bbb84?ref=confluence) )
    - discussion on the best way to interact 
    - flash out a proposal on the new release process ([Matt Nelson (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6092a453afcdb700691fdc3b?ref=confluence))
    - Connecting them with [Sally MacFarlane](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5a98a5f381617c2a79536306?ref=confluence)would be great
- **Release updates**
  - 22.10.0 discussion
  - Discussion of the release process 
    - Proposal to change release process in-flight
  - Besu charter discussions 
    - [Matt Nelson (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6092a453afcdb700691fdc3b?ref=confluence) to work with [Hart Montgomery](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:86f447c0-86dc-43b3-ac03-6a31923bbb84?ref=confluence) and others on this - CC: [Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence)

**Work Updates**

- **Other Business**
- **Metrics Review -** [https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger/besu/dashboard;quicktime=time\_filter\_3Y](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger%2Fbesu/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y)
- **Roadmap Review - [Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap) - roadmap pending proposal and discussion**
- **Open Forum - skipped**
- **Future Topics - skipped**

  

    **|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |

No files shared here yet.

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description**