# 2022-03-29 Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/91405289771?pwd=QzA3a0ozTjVSZ0hsYzgwTm9lVDRPQT09](https://zoom.us/j/91405289771?pwd=QzA3a0ozTjVSZ0hsYzgwTm9lVDRPQT09))

APAC Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 5 pm Monday Los Angeles
- 8 pm Monday New York
- 1 am  Tuesday UTC
- 3 am Tuesday Paris/Berlin
- 11 am Tuesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - Incentive Program Update: [\[WIP\] Proposal #4](../../../../besu/programs-grants/besu-execution-client-incentive-program/wip-proposal-4.md) is considered the final proposal. EF, HLF, and CSI are currently working with their respective legal teams. 
    - update from [Hart Montgomery](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:86f447c0-86dc-43b3-ac03-6a31923bbb84?ref=confluence) - ongoing meetings with legal teams. Broad agreement but need more specific details. Hart writing up a more detailed version of Tim's proposal. Will ask this group for feedback. eg filling in the blanks on crypto terms. What is Proof of stake consensus etc.
- **Roadmap Review - [Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap)** 
  - Roadmap needs updating
- **Release updates**
  - 22.1.1 done on 24 Feb
  - 22.1.2 done on Mar 15
  - 22.1.3 scheduled for this week ~ Mar 31 [Stefan Pingel](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5cad317cbb353819f2b62236?ref=confluence)
  - and 22.4.0-RC1 scheduled for next week ~ Apr 4 [Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/60be12f85c64b100711c51d4?ref=confluence)
  - Tracking who is doing each release [Release Rotations 2022](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Release+Rotations+2022)
    - Add your name here to volunteer for release rotation
  - Team is working toward several Release Process Improvements [here](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Release+Process+Improvement)
- **Work Updates**
  - trace APIs - complete in 22.1.2
  - Future Backwards Incompatible Changes ([Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence))
    - Java 17 migration (notice in next quarterly, actual upgrade next after)
    - EVM migration from Gas object to long ([git branch](https://github.com/shemnon/besu/tree/longForGas)) (next quarterly)
- **Other Business** 
  - Documentation Discussion from Nico: [https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/951487768272465981](https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/951487768272465981)
    - Did this get resolved - ask in Discord
  - Automated Security Bot Requests  
LinuxFoundation as a part of the insights process is creating an automated "security bot" that will analyze LF (and hence Hyperledger project).  Feature set is very low at the moment, but they are actively soliciting feature requests.  What would Besu want to see?
    - can we view what is currently being scanned for? Current insights?
- **Metrics Review -** [https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger/besu/dashboard;quicktime=time\_filter\_3Y](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger%2Fbesu/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y)
- **Open Forum**
  - Proposal - "Off Week" Discord voice chat meetup. Volunteers?
    - Frank to take the lead on this - start conversation in discord
  - Deprecating log42j - from Diego see Contributor channel 
    - check if this has been resolved
  - LGTM - analysis not currently working. Can we turn LGTM off - is Sonarcloud sufficient?
    - No objections - Sally to make concrete proposal in discord
- **Future Topics**

    **|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155483/GMT20220329-005818_Recording.transcript.vtt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155483&fileName=GMT20220329-005818_Recording.transcript.vtt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155483&fileName=GMT20220329-005818_Recording.transcript.vtt) | File [GMT20220329-005818\_Recording.transcript.vtt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155483/GMT20220329-005818_Recording.transcript.vtt?api=v2) | Apr 07, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description**