# 2022-02-15 Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09](https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09))

EMEA/AMER Friendly Time -  1500 UTC ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 8 AM Thursday San Francisco
- 11 AM Thursday New York
- 3 PM Thursday UTC
- 5 PM Thursday Paris/Berlin
- 1 AM Wednesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - Incentive Program Update: [\[WIP\] Proposal #4](../../../../besu/programs-grants/besu-execution-client-incentive-program/wip-proposal-4.md)
    - Follow up on these Hyperledger action items from prior call: 
      - Can Hyperledger hold the withdrawal keys and hold crypto
      - Can they hold the funds from the transaction fees and distribute them to participating maintainers’ organizations
      - Can Hyperledger commit to using the funds solely for Besu mainnet work
      - Can Hyperledger assign someone on staff as a Besu community manager to help manage the maintainer list, scope out bounties, manage the program from their side
    - *Tim from EF reviewed the doc*
    - *Proposal will move forward on Friday 18 Feb if there is no substantive objection.*
    - *Q on maintainer definition - who decides?*
      - *Participation as a MM is more fluid than Besu Maintainer*
      - *Some MMs may take sabbaticals*
      - *Besu community consensus should decide, EF and HLF make final call.*
        - *Perhaps EF should start and end decision?*
    - *Discussions about how maintainers move up and down and in and out of program.*
    - *Who decides who is MM and not?  3 options.*
      - *1 round of proposals then EF decides*
      - *full discussion w.in besu*
      - *start and end with Tim*
    - ***Next Steps from Incentive Program Conversation:  
***
      - *Grace to follow up getting resolution on who decides role eligibility for the EF Incentive Program*
      - *Hyperledger staff to confirm their four action items above*
      - *Assuming first item above is resolved and no additional concerns are raised, **this proposal will be considered final on 2/18.** ConsenSys, HLF and EF will begin agreement drafting with their legal teams.*
- ~**Roadmap Review - [Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap)**~
- **Release updates**
  - 22.1.0 planning - list of bugfixes to cherrypick [Release 22.1.0](../../../../besu/developing-and-conventions/releasing/archive/release-2210.md) - only one is a regression since 21.10.x
  - Tracking who is doing each release [Release Rotations 2022](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Release+Rotations+2022)
  - Team is working toward several Release Process Improvements [here](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Release+Process+Improvement)
  - Start a formal release rotation
    - Volunteers:
      - Jiri
      - Karim
      - Danno (22.1.1)
      - Justin
      - Gary
      - <Ausie Engineers?>
    - Need a quarterly release coordinator?
    - **Next Step from this conversation**: Bring this conversation to Discord to align on coordination plan
- ~**Work Updates**~
  - ~trace APIs - ongoing~
  - ~Merge Update~
- **Other Business** 
  - Proposal - Move Baseline JVM to Java 17 ([#3320](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/issues/3320))
    - Start communication now, no sooner than 22.7.0?  (ideally 22.7.0, could slip to 22.10.0)
    - Action Item - [Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence)
- **Metrics Review -** [https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger/besu/dashboard;quicktime=time\_filter\_3Y](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger%2Fbesu/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y)
- **Open Forum**
  - We are officially on Discord! Should we add maintainer's Discord handle on Maintainer list? 
    - Shameless plug: if you see anything referencing RocketChat, please update it to go to Discord
    - Action item - [Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence)
  - Proposal - "Off Week" Discord voice chat meetup. When?
  - Docker image signing. ConsenSys introducing this as standard (EthSigner, Web3Signer etc) - does it make sense to add this for Besu?
  - Deprecating log42j
- **Future Topics**

    **|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155364/GMT20220215-155721_Recording.transcript.vtt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155364&fileName=GMT20220215-155721_Recording.transcript.vtt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155364&fileName=GMT20220215-155721_Recording.transcript.vtt) | File [GMT20220215-155721\_Recording.transcript.vtt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155364/GMT20220215-155721_Recording.transcript.vtt?api=v2) | Feb 15, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155364/GMT20220215-155721_Recording.txt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155364&fileName=GMT20220215-155721_Recording.txt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155364&fileName=GMT20220215-155721_Recording.txt) | Text File [GMT20220215-155721\_Recording.txt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155364/GMT20220215-155721_Recording.txt?api=v2) | Feb 15, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description  

[Download All](/wiki/download/all_attachments?pageId=22155364)**