# 2022-12-06 Contributor Call - APAC Friendly Time

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/91405289771?pwd=QzA3a0ozTjVSZ0hsYzgwTm9lVDRPQT09](https://zoom.us/j/91405289771?pwd=QzA3a0ozTjVSZ0hsYzgwTm9lVDRPQT09))

APAC Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220621T010000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220621T010000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 5 pm Monday Los Angeles
- 8 pm Monday New York
- 1 am  Tuesday UTC
- 3 am Tuesday Paris/Berlin
- 11 am Tuesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature  
- **General Announcements**
  - skipped
- **Release updates**
  - 22.10.1
  - 22.10.2
  - 22.10.3 - planned for next Wednesday - no release coordinator assigned yet, ask on Discord
- **Work Updates  
**
  - Shanghai - [Shanghai planning](../../../../besu/performance-stability/q4-2022-stability-and-performance-improvements/shanghai-planning.md)
    - EOF - Gary: does 'big EOF' preclude 'small EOF'?
    - Withdrawals
      - shanghaiTimestamp
      - hivetests - Sally's team looking at fixing RPC hive tests, but not engine api
    - 4844
      - Create Discord channel? Let's use a thread #besu-contributors discord channel and consider this if it gets too noisy.
    - Next ACD: "final list of EIPs we can include alongside withdrawals"
      - Start thread on Discord
      - Potentially arrange meeting
  - CI
    - Progressing well, a few hurdles along the way but it's close
    - pki-qbft test needs resolving
- **Other Business**
  - The *next* APAC contributor call is Jan 3 AU (Jan 2 in US/EU) - if no urgent issues - propose we skip that one due to folks being on break
    - Call out once more in Discord
  - Time rotation of contributor calls (3 time options?) - discussion
    - skipped until next call with Danno
  - Remove or rename #besu-nodes discussion - [https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/1044723284597559298](https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/1044723284597559298)
    - Some agreement on folding back to one channel
    - Simon to finalise decision with a vote on Discord
  - Autogenerated changelog discussion - [https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/1042273874928226314](https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/1042273874928226314)
    - Context: lots of changelog conflicts
    - Another approach: order changelog by PR number
    - Less of an issue now, probably don't need to continue this conversation
  - Propose deprecation of GoQuorum privacy (one of 3 privacy modes in Besu) - [Sally MacFarlane](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5a98a5f381617c2a79536306?ref=confluence) 
  - Add Gabriel as maintainer - [https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/4750](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/4750)
    - 13 so far so maybe able to merge.
- **Open Forum**
  - Release process and Quality
    - recent issues with release quality 
    - reinterpretation of existing processes in the context of trunk based development
    - Gary: propose still releasing on main but cut the release days before we officially announce it
    - It is possible to do semi-manually right now, but could incrementally automate
    - transparency of dev node burn-in results
    - Some CI work required for docker publishing
    - If we adopt this, can we do this for 22.10.3? Would require cut-off this Friday instead of next Wednesday
    - Continue conversation in Discord
- **Roadmap Review** 
  - [Besu Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap)
- **Future Topics**
  - skipped

   

|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155940/GMT20221206-010027_Recording.transcript.vtt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155940&fileName=GMT20221206-010027_Recording.transcript.vtt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155940&fileName=GMT20221206-010027_Recording.transcript.vtt) | File [GMT20221206-010027\_Recording.transcript.vtt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155940/GMT20221206-010027_Recording.transcript.vtt?api=v2) | Dec 05, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155940/GMT20221206-010027_Recording.txt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155940&fileName=GMT20221206-010027_Recording.txt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155940&fileName=GMT20221206-010027_Recording.txt) | Text File [GMT20221206-010027\_Recording.txt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155940/GMT20221206-010027_Recording.txt?api=v2) | Dec 05, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description  

[Download All](/wiki/download/all_attachments?pageId=22155940)