# 2022-08-16 Contributor Call - APAC Friendly Time

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/91405289771?pwd=QzA3a0ozTjVSZ0hsYzgwTm9lVDRPQT09](https://zoom.us/j/91405289771?pwd=QzA3a0ozTjVSZ0hsYzgwTm9lVDRPQT09))

APAC Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220621T010000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220621T010000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 6 pm Monday Los Angeles
- 9 pm Monday New York
- 1 am  Tuesday UTC
- 3 am Tuesday Paris/Berlin
- 11 am Tuesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - /Add item/
- **Roadmap Review -** [Besu Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap)
- **Release updates**
  - 22.7.1 planned for early next week
    - focus on The Merge - if it's not critical, consider delaying merging your PR
- **Work Updates**
  - [Shanghai](https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/blob/master/network-upgrades/mainnet-upgrades/shanghai.md)  
    - When can features be committed to "shanghaiBlock"?
    - Options for experimental features?
      - can use feature forks
  - Shanghai EVM Work 
    - EOF ([Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence))
      - container (EIP-3540)
      - bytecode validation (EIP-3670)
    - Transient Storage (EIP-1153) ([PR #](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/~shemnon/)[4](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/4118)[118](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/~shemnon/))
- **Other Business**  
  - CI Migration: Circle CI → Github Actions([antoine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5e57690590dfb70c9e6254a7?ref=confluence))
    - Thoughts?
    - Timing?
    - Cost?
    - Can GitHub Actions do releases? publish artefacts
    - Can we do part GHA and part Circle CI?
- **Metrics Review -** [Linux Foundation Project Besu Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger%2Fbesu/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y)
- **Open Forum**
  - is the EIP process changing? Context - the GraphQL implementation moving away from the spec [https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/4112](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/4112)
- **Future Topics**
  - /Add item/ 

  

   

|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155768/GMT20220816-005954_Recording.transcript.vtt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155768&fileName=GMT20220816-005954_Recording.transcript.vtt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155768&fileName=GMT20220816-005954_Recording.transcript.vtt) | File [GMT20220816-005954\_Recording.transcript.vtt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155768/GMT20220816-005954_Recording.transcript.vtt?api=v2) | Aug 18, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22155768/GMT20220816-005954_Recording.txt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22155768&fileName=GMT20220816-005954_Recording.txt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22155768&fileName=GMT20220816-005954_Recording.txt) | Text File [GMT20220816-005954\_Recording.txt](/wiki/download/attachments/22155768/GMT20220816-005954_Recording.txt?api=v2) | Aug 18, 2022 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description  

[Download All](/wiki/download/all_attachments?pageId=22155768)