# 2021-09-28 Besu Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://consensys.zoom.us/j/95691099798](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://consensys.zoom.us/j/95691099798&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1621094747216000&usg=AOvVaw0DzE1ZLz6VqnubaLGDkBoj))

EMEA/AMER Friendly Time -  1500 UTC ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 8 AM Tuesday San Francisco
- 11 AM Tuesday New York
- 3 PM Tuesday UTC
- 5 PM Tuesday Paris/Berlin
- 1 AM Wednesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - TSC Election kicks off on October 1st. Make sure you review the Nominees' bios and vote.
    - Deadline 17th October
  - Besu is participating in the Grace Hopper Open Source Day on October 1st.
  - Quarterly year report ([Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence) will post a link)
- **Release updates**  
  - EVM updates done 
- **Work Updates**
  - [DRAFT - Pico CLI Plugin Integration](../../../../besu/design-documents/draft-pico-cli-plugin-integration.md)
  - Plugin-able RPC Endpoints [https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/2754](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/2754)
    - How this could help modularisation and possible further plugin-istation e.g non-core apis become plugins?
- **Other Business** 
- **Open Forum**
  - Coding conventions (var, varargs, etc)
    - writing guidelines on this ([Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/60be12f85c64b100711c51d4?ref=confluence))
- **Future Topics**
  - Slack migration ([Matthew Wright (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5fb2ceb04a09640069c6345f?ref=confluence) [Francesco Andreoli](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/610104864e8d8d0069291688?ref=confluence) )
  - Static code analysis in general ([Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/60be12f85c64b100711c51d4?ref=confluence) )
    - do we like them?
    - do we want to update them? 

  

**View recording:**

[https://consensys.zoom.us/rec/share/MXslXdkrPtTXNdveTYXYnMEVZPKrzu3jpLqewOFt1UgQR1Lwvm89\_7dorVzmBCzL.i37yeIpTe831EUDd](https://consensys.zoom.us/rec/share/MXslXdkrPtTXNdveTYXYnMEVZPKrzu3jpLqewOFt1UgQR1Lwvm89_7dorVzmBCzL.i37yeIpTe831EUDd) 

Passcode: ebl7&?Cm