# 2021-11-23 Besu Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://consensys.zoom.us/j/95691099798](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://consensys.zoom.us/j/95691099798&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1621094747216000&usg=AOvVaw0DzE1ZLz6VqnubaLGDkBoj))

EMEA/AMER Friendly Time -  1500 UTC ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20201012T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 8 AM Tuesday San Francisco
- 11 AM Tuesday New York
- 3 PM Tuesday UTC
- 5 PM Tuesday Paris/Berlin
- 1 AM Wednesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - [TSC Election results](https://tsc.hyperledger.org/tsc-members.html)
- **Release updates**  
  - Release process in general, plan for diversifying who can make a release.([Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:71871f91-9632-4415-9d78-780eb53fd275?ref=confluence) )
    - How many maintainers required to sign off on a release?
  - GAR-E - what does it still need to reduce friction?
  - What role (if any) does CircleCI have in releasing?
- **Work Updates**
  - Static code analysis ([Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:71871f91-9632-4415-9d78-780eb53fd275?ref=confluence))
    - Example output here: [https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=hyperledger-cicd\_besu](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=hyperledger-cicd_besu)
    - How do we know when we should turn on build gating?
  - Matrix/Rocketchat discussion
    - asking the community ([Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence)) 
    - Fill the survey when is coming out
  - Ongoing Vert.x upgrade [Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:71871f91-9632-4415-9d78-780eb53fd275?ref=confluence)
- **Other Business** 
- **Open Forum**
  - updates on Coding conventions (var, varargs, etc)
    - Who can do those changes? 
    - update the doc, etc
  - Design process proposal for further modularization:
    - transaction pooling and block building is a hot topic lately. [Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:71871f91-9632-4415-9d78-780eb53fd275?ref=confluence)would like to start a design for factoring out block building much like we did with the EVM. What design artifacts should we produce (if any) prior to submitting PRs?
- **Future Topics**

  

**View recording:** 

no recording this time as we didn't sort it out the hosting permissions/recording rights

Passcode: