# 2021-09-13 Besu Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://consensys.zoom.us/j/94665568300](https://consensys.zoom.us/j/94665568300)[⁩]) 

APAC/AMER Friendly Time -  0100UTC ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210913T010000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210913T010000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 6 pm Monday Los Angeles
- 9 pm Monday New York
- 1 am  Tuesday UTC
- 3 am Tuesday Paris/Berlin
- 11 am Tuesday Brisbane

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - TSC Election - Nominations Open
    - Contact Danno or Grace if you would like to be nominated
  - Rocket
- **Release updates**
  - Beta Cycle starts after next bi-weekly release
    - [Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence) is open to contributing but private PR with Consensys
    - Looking to work on EVM refactoring (see below)
    - "Gary-e" — home rolled build release at ConsenSys that needs to be open sourced to HL 
- **Work Updates**
  - Permissioning - added DNS support to node allowlist [#2571](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/issues/2571)
  - EVM Refactor - [Refactor EVM into a stand alone library](../../../../besu/design-documents/refactor-evm-into-a-stand-alone-library.md)
    - Working on performance improvements
  - WIP - [documenting](../../../../besu/design-documents/modular-besu/draft-besu-software-component-map.md) existing repo organization
    - [Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:71871f91-9632-4415-9d78-780eb53fd275?ref=confluence)\- "why is the repo organized the way it is?" 
    - Justin started working on structure of existing repo to clean house
      - [https://hackmd.io/@n0ble/consensus\_api\_design\_space#Minimal-set-of-methods](https://hackmd.io/@n0ble/consensus_api_design_space#Minimal-set-of-methods)
  - Rayonism 
    - [Ratan Sur (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5ce472e018de8f0dc3552e9c?ref=confluence)
    - [Gary Schulte](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6047b948b020eb00684030b6?ref=confluence) 
  - Modularizing Besu
    - [Gary Schulte](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6047b948b020eb00684030b6?ref=confluence) is working on this/ no push back from core contributors 
  - Merge meeting call 
    - Teku/Besu from EF was last Thursday 
    - Merge engine design space 
- **Other Business** 
  - TSC Quarterly Report is due soon - What items to list?
    - We need to gather all the things we're doing and report to TSC by Thursday
    - Everyone to type up what your teams are doing and send in (Danno can help)
  - [Good first issues](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) for Open Source Day
    - Creating "coachable issues" internally and then get feedback from external community
    - Make efficient issues that don't need a lot of handholding 
  - RocketChat to Matrix Migration is underway (Matrix is LIVE!)
- **Open Forum**
  - Level of ask for being involved in TSC
    - 1 hr call every week (Danno)
- **Future Topics**

  

**View recording:**

[https://consensys.zoom.us/rec/share/VWgstxjAS4YSFMaQKJvV5IVVFeWkEJzkfHC6hVY7fSdDs1kcgx1tZoKW\_JPIr7uP.1SJjdpdvFhSWiL3L](https://consensys.zoom.us/rec/share/VWgstxjAS4YSFMaQKJvV5IVVFeWkEJzkfHC6hVY7fSdDs1kcgx1tZoKW_JPIr7uP.1SJjdpdvFhSWiL3L) 

Passcode: YtH#A?z3