00:07:58	Grace Hartley:	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/BESU/2022-02-15+Contributor+Call
00:10:03	Tim Beiko:	Congrats Hart üéâ
00:10:12	Hart Montgomery:	Thanks Tim!
00:10:28	Francesco Andreoli:	Congrats Hart!
00:10:41	Hart Montgomery:	Thanks everyone!
00:11:15	Justin Florentine:	Welcome Hart, and congrats
00:11:45	Tim Beiko:	Nested link: https://notes.ethereum.org/@timbeiko/besu-cip-proposal-4
00:27:07	Hart Montgomery:	I really like this approach because it seems like it will encourage more contributions.
00:27:38	Danno Ferrin:	Yes, steps instead of a wall.
00:29:26	Danno Ferrin:	Also important for fees is timing _when_ to deploy a contract.
00:33:30	Sajida Zouarhi:	+1
00:38:12	Gary Schulte:	üëç
00:38:44	Gary Schulte:	Two T's
00:42:31	Gary Schulte:	Ironically decisions about whether a contribution was ‚Äúmainnet worthy‚Äù could actually disenchant potential contributors.
00:42:59	Hart Montgomery:	That's definitely true!
00:44:08	Hart Montgomery:	The ideal situation is that the EF makes these decisions as a benevolent dictator, and explains the decisions if people disagree.
00:44:29	Hart Montgomery:	We really don't want the community endlessly arguing over this.
00:44:59	Daniela Barbosa:	For Clarification , this ‚ÄúRy‚Äù that Tim speaks of is not the Ry Jones on Hyperledger staff.
00:45:12	Danno Ferrin:	Rai Sur
00:45:12	Tim Beiko:	Rai Sur
00:45:28	Hart Montgomery:	I know, but it was fun imagining Ry Jones moonlighting as an Ethereum developer!
00:45:33	Sajida Zouarhi:	Yes and we can also have a list of mainnet related streams of work that people can contribute to with the knowledge that they will be considered ‚Äúmainnet worthy‚Äù
00:46:12	Hart Montgomery:	Definitely.  Clear guidelines as to what should count would make the process smoother.
00:46:23	Danno Ferrin:	We will time box this at :45, correct?  Release schedule and two proposals I would prefer to at least talk to those rather than put off two more weeks.
00:46:58	Gary Schulte:	üôè
00:47:30	Tim Beiko:	Yes, happy to timebox
00:50:37	Tim Beiko:	We can discuss this on the Besu discord over the next couple days
00:51:47	Daniela Barbosa:	+1
00:51:58	Daniela Barbosa:	I do need to drop - thank you
00:52:00	Hart Montgomery:	Thanks everyone!  I have to drop--talk to you all later.
00:52:05	Tim Beiko:	I need to hop too, thanks all!
00:52:43	Sajida Zouarhi:	https://discord.com/channels/905194001349627914/905205502940696607/942920182807023676
00:53:49	Karim T.:	Like rotation idea
00:53:50	Sajida Zouarhi:	Yes it speaks to past rotations
00:54:12	Sajida Zouarhi:	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/BESU/Release+Rotations+2022
01:04:55	Grace Hartley:	Yeah I'll follow that up that we don't lose talking to some enterprise customers on transitioning to 17
01:06:41	jiri:	What is the opinion on using the java modules to encapsulate components of besu
01:07:33	Grace Hartley:	Woooooo
01:09:29	Grace Hartley:	Really?!? lol I can't believe fabric does that
