WEBVTT

1
00:03:25.830 --> 00:03:28.109
Francesco Andreoli: Hey, Jerry! Hey? Justin! Hey, Matt?

2
00:03:28.780 --> 00:03:31.350
Jiri Peinlich: Hello, Jessica! Good to see you,

3
00:03:34.430 --> 00:03:35.480
Justin Florentine: Hey, Matt?

4
00:03:35.850 --> 00:03:37.440
Justin Florentine: Hey, You

5
00:03:39.700 --> 00:03:44.060
Jiri Peinlich: Hello, Mr.

6
00:03:49.100 --> 00:03:51.820
Francesco Andreoli: When it's easier like we came out.

7
00:03:53.040 --> 00:03:55.170
Francesco Andreoli: I think my pronunciation that

8
00:03:55.350 --> 00:03:57.650
Jiri Peinlich: no worries

9
00:04:05.690 --> 00:04:08.940
Francesco Andreoli: cool. I think. Um,

10
00:04:09.050 --> 00:04:11.819
Matt Nelson: I don't think anyone's going to join besides us.

11
00:04:12.510 --> 00:04:13.810
Francesco Andreoli: Let me just

12
00:04:14.420 --> 00:04:15.770
Francesco Andreoli: sure

13
00:04:17.589 --> 00:04:21.690
Francesco Andreoli: link. I'm sure these so we can go through like, Have you on having um

14
00:04:23.710 --> 00:04:25.979
Francesco Andreoli: any? A quick call with updates,

15
00:04:27.390 --> 00:04:28.789
Francesco Andreoli: You guys see my screen?

16
00:04:33.610 --> 00:04:34.560
Yep,

17
00:04:39.300 --> 00:04:40.920
Ameziane Hamlat: how you everyone,

18
00:04:42.150 --> 00:04:43.320
Francesco Andreoli: hey? Everyone.

19
00:04:48.950 --> 00:04:51.599
Francesco Andreoli: I'll take some notes. In the meantime,

20
00:04:56.740 --> 00:05:00.120
Matt Nelson: what do we want to discuss? If it's just consensus. We should just

21
00:05:00.630 --> 00:05:04.999
Matt Nelson: drop bail on, because we already know what we're doing.

22
00:05:05.860 --> 00:05:11.589
Justin Florentine: Yeah, no, we should probably have a recording, though, for other folks to catch up on.

23
00:05:11.940 --> 00:05:13.960
Matt Nelson: What? What do they want to discuss

24
00:05:14.600 --> 00:05:15.860
Matt Nelson: the release?

25
00:05:17.880 --> 00:05:20.179
Justin Florentine: Uh I mean, whatever's in the agenda

26
00:05:20.450 --> 00:05:22.220
Matt Nelson: I didn't put anything in there.

27
00:05:23.680 --> 00:05:37.439
Francesco Andreoli: I think we have couple of things there are still from a couple of weeks ago. Uh the Ci you were under met. Yeah, maybe we could do an update about the Ci for the recording um. We can talk about

28
00:05:37.480 --> 00:05:43.719
Matt Nelson: the release, and we could talk about Shanghai quick, and then, if no one else joins, we can just leave it at that and call it a short one.

29
00:05:44.220 --> 00:05:45.299
Justin Florentine: Sounds good.

30
00:05:46.020 --> 00:05:48.590
Matt Nelson: Uh, we'll give it another minute or two, though.

31
00:05:48.890 --> 00:05:53.209
Matt Nelson: Yes, I, realizing now that I was very sassy in the recording, so

32
00:05:55.770 --> 00:06:00.490
Matt Nelson: Eerie would like to talk about the tendency injection. I think that is a great topic of discussion.

33
00:06:00.780 --> 00:06:01.980
Francesco Andreoli: I agree

34
00:06:02.360 --> 00:06:05.220
Francesco Andreoli: hopefully on uh the J. Right now.

35
00:07:14.500 --> 00:07:16.820
Francesco Andreoli: Cool, I think we can get started.

36
00:07:22.330 --> 00:07:25.180
Francesco Andreoli: Oh, hey, Karen, it's obvious.

37
00:07:25.830 --> 00:07:27.260
Karim T.: I don't know um

38
00:07:27.610 --> 00:07:30.060
Matt Nelson: for the recording anti-trust. Notice

39
00:07:30.100 --> 00:07:33.650
Matt Nelson: you can read it at the link. We are recording the meeting.

40
00:07:36.480 --> 00:07:37.620
Matt Nelson: Yeah, don't

41
00:07:37.840 --> 00:07:39.750
Matt Nelson: violate the antitrust. Notice

42
00:07:39.830 --> 00:07:42.439
Matt Nelson: Why, Don't, we start with the Ci, and

43
00:07:43.190 --> 00:07:48.330
Matt Nelson: so to reiterate circle. We have probably about

44
00:07:48.960 --> 00:07:54.619
Matt Nelson: three more weeks of circle credits. Two to three more weeks of circle credits.

45
00:07:54.860 --> 00:07:56.210
Matt Nelson: Um!

46
00:07:57.160 --> 00:08:02.049
Matt Nelson: So we delayed that we got approval earlier this month for an additional spend of like

47
00:08:02.340 --> 00:08:04.180
Matt Nelson: two thousand five hundred bucks

48
00:08:04.330 --> 00:08:05.740
Matt Nelson: um,

49
00:08:06.720 --> 00:08:12.650
Matt Nelson: so it should last us again until the middle of December. Maybe just, and I can kick it to you for

50
00:08:12.800 --> 00:08:16.549
Matt Nelson: what you've been working on in the state of Ci.

51
00:08:16.760 --> 00:08:22.780
Justin Florentine: So the state of Ci is we have tests running with um.

52
00:08:23.360 --> 00:08:33.210
Justin Florentine: So the bill process is running. I have not um really tried to do anything with the artifacts that is output from it. So there's still a long way to go. Honestly. Um!

53
00:08:33.580 --> 00:08:51.410
Justin Florentine: All the test run except for the acceptance test. I'm currently working on that right now. Um! Everything else runs and passes. Um. The next question we're going to have to answer is, you know. How are we going to manage and do? Permission controls on the actual publishing of the document and of the artifacts?

54
00:08:51.420 --> 00:09:09.840
Justin Florentine: Um docker containers um jar jar files things like that. Uh. So not really sure how that's going to work. Um, I assume we're planning on running exclusively self-hosted runners. Um, if we if we use a mix of self-hosted and Github runners.

55
00:09:09.850 --> 00:09:26.269
Justin Florentine: There are some technical limitations that we're gonna have to work around um a good portion of my time this week so far has been spent sorting out uh file ownership issues that um get reset anytime. You use a docker container

56
00:09:26.310 --> 00:09:32.099
Justin Florentine: um. And so that's kind of a problem. All good portion of our um

57
00:09:32.450 --> 00:09:36.450
Justin Florentine: build actions actually run as docker containers.

58
00:09:37.070 --> 00:09:48.809
Justin Florentine: Um, there's also a little bit of a need to, you know. Kind of have an ops management um concern on the runners. If we're doing self hosted runners ourselves.

59
00:09:48.820 --> 00:10:00.180
Justin Florentine: Um, we're gonna have to do a little bit of work to make sure that they're not filling up disc, because I've already blown through um dangling docker volumes a couple of times. And um, that's

60
00:10:00.240 --> 00:10:07.380
Justin Florentine: caused a lot of problems. So a lot of times it's been spent trying to figure out the right ways to clean up through our Ci process.

61
00:10:07.460 --> 00:10:18.859
Justin Florentine: Um, that's gonna be that's gonna be a concern. I think we can bake most of that into the Ci process itself. But we're definitely gonna have to have some access to the runners um

62
00:10:19.140 --> 00:10:20.920
Justin Florentine: or maintenance,

63
00:10:21.080 --> 00:10:28.170
Justin Florentine: or you know, somebody dedicated to to maintaining that it is that is going to be some infrastructure that's going to need oversight.

64
00:10:29.230 --> 00:10:49.179
Justin Florentine: Um, I think that's about it. The one outstanding question that I have is we have a docker container called Base to build um. I found no source control for that it doesn't seem to exist in the Hyper Ledger Github organization, and there was no clues in Docker Hub as to where it came from.

65
00:10:49.220 --> 00:10:57.299
Justin Florentine: So um i'll, i'll post that and discord to see if anybody can asynchronously help me find where that thing is.

66
00:10:58.080 --> 00:11:06.599
Justin Florentine: Um. So that's where we're at. I think we'll probably be in good shape. But mid December, I think you know I don't see that as a real challenge,

67
00:11:06.680 --> 00:11:19.139
Justin Florentine: so I would say maybe we should start thinking about um the release after uh twenty, two, ten, one being one that is produced with github actions instead of circle. Ci.

68
00:11:21.420 --> 00:11:27.270
Francesco Andreoli: Is there a way. How uh, can I disable the Ci on my branch? You know I need it.

69
00:11:29.890 --> 00:11:30.800
Justin Florentine: Huh!

70
00:11:32.970 --> 00:11:35.390
Justin Florentine: What would be the use case for that?

71
00:11:38.800 --> 00:11:47.680
Justin Florentine: Just like you're pushing aggressively to your remote, and you don't really want to run a build every time. And look, I feel like i'm wasting the minutes.

72
00:11:47.810 --> 00:11:48.900
Justin Florentine: Yeah,

73
00:11:49.330 --> 00:11:50.760
Justin Florentine: Um,

74
00:11:52.350 --> 00:11:53.760
Justin Florentine: it's a good question.

75
00:11:53.800 --> 00:11:55.329
Justin Florentine: No, no, the answer to that.

76
00:11:55.920 --> 00:12:06.949
Karim T.: I'll put that in my notes as a thing to look into.

77
00:12:07.020 --> 00:12:08.419
Justin Florentine: Okay,

78
00:12:21.150 --> 00:12:22.359
Francesco Andreoli: I remember, man,

79
00:12:24.210 --> 00:12:39.960
Justin Florentine: I don't know um. I I don't see any reason why we can't use Java seventeen, so I mean, I think that would probably be the next thing that I work on after the Github actions, and I don't think there's gonna be much work to do there's already A. Pr. That's outstanding for it.

80
00:12:39.970 --> 00:12:54.400
Justin Florentine: So that'll just need to be updated and confirmed that it works. But I don't there there. There was very little in that. Pr. That was problematic, so it should be a very straightforward upgrade. Do you think it would be a small release, or just a

81
00:12:54.410 --> 00:13:01.299
Karim T.: Do we think it's a breaking change, or something like that, because we would force us to change Java version. I don't know

82
00:13:01.460 --> 00:13:03.539
Karim T.: not breaking. But

83
00:13:03.920 --> 00:13:12.819
Justin Florentine: yeah, not just like anybody that's not using a docker container is going to have to update their Java Sdk: Right?

84
00:13:12.890 --> 00:13:13.930
Karim T.: Yeah,

85
00:13:15.660 --> 00:13:34.879
Ameziane Hamlat: Yeah, I think it is a breaking change, actually. Because Um, yeah, if you're on it just by your you're all you have to. You have to up upgrade your Java version, but otherwise we now we can already run this with Java seventeen, so I guess, like The javascript in here is to

86
00:13:34.890 --> 00:13:39.739
Ameziane Hamlat: use Java seventeen features and new features. So it's a brick and change for me,

87
00:13:40.560 --> 00:13:45.109
Jiri Peinlich: so would there be a benefit to have like for one. That is something to both of them

88
00:13:48.220 --> 00:13:51.730
Jiri Peinlich: like both seventeen and whatever eleven

89
00:13:52.550 --> 00:13:55.599
Jiri Peinlich: you can try it out and

90
00:13:58.090 --> 00:13:59.440
Justin Florentine: well,

91
00:14:03.440 --> 00:14:04.609
Justin Florentine: we could.

92
00:14:13.510 --> 00:14:15.590
Karim T.: Maybe we can have.

93
00:14:15.680 --> 00:14:16.790
Justin Florentine: Go ahead.

94
00:14:16.960 --> 00:14:24.279
Karim T.: Maybe we can, as you said, having your release with two version, and seeing it will be deprecated in the next three days, just to

95
00:14:25.460 --> 00:14:27.439
Karim T.: not deprecated, but

96
00:14:27.650 --> 00:14:29.580
Karim T.: we use the

97
00:14:30.080 --> 00:14:33.770
Justin Florentine: That's a lot of work to support a um.

98
00:14:34.060 --> 00:14:35.920
Justin Florentine: Maybe it's not that much work.

99
00:14:36.230 --> 00:14:38.329
Justin Florentine: I I guess we'd have to think about it,

100
00:14:39.570 --> 00:14:46.950
Justin Florentine: because I think the old I mean the old Bill and Tickle Ci was doing it right. We were building both on eleven and latest,

101
00:14:51.140 --> 00:14:54.680
Karim T.: or maybe just asking the disco then,

102
00:14:57.550 --> 00:15:03.950
Jiri Peinlich: or maybe we make it a release of the old version. Then you just switch to version, make another release,

103
00:15:05.760 --> 00:15:08.540
Jiri Peinlich: and the only difference would be the change of the

104
00:15:11.430 --> 00:15:12.430
I don't know.

105
00:15:20.500 --> 00:15:22.349
Justin Florentine: All right. I think that's it for me.

106
00:15:25.030 --> 00:15:27.570
Matt Nelson: You want to talk about dependency injection, you

107
00:15:35.680 --> 00:15:53.309
Jiri Peinlich: where I uh try to replace the current way of how we building all our uh objects uh I place it with uh using spring, just so that I can see how it, how difficult it will be, or whatever so it's not yet fully functional.

108
00:15:53.490 --> 00:16:12.059
Jiri Peinlich: And i'm like a quick kind of over the weekend. So can you do it? I'm a more mostly interested in, uh, with the opinion of uh, the rest of the Maintainer. So on, uh having some time of dependency, injection and spring in particular. I I I like spring personally. That's why i'm doing it in that.

109
00:16:20.410 --> 00:16:21.260
So

110
00:16:21.520 --> 00:16:23.780
Jiri Peinlich: Going to

111
00:16:24.000 --> 00:16:31.650
Justin Florentine: Yeah, I mean, we're We're we're experimenting here right so I don't think there's a need to rule out anything.

112
00:16:31.870 --> 00:16:33.160
Justin Florentine: Um!

113
00:16:35.100 --> 00:16:53.469
Justin Florentine: Well, I don't know maybe it is a non-starter. I don't I don't see it as a nonstarter. I mean, I know that you can strip it down. Excuse me, and you can strip, spring down quite a bit and get to just the dependency injection stuff which I'm assuming that we're doing, I think none of us want to adopt all spring boot and all of its tendrils that go everywhere and pull all kinds of stuff in

114
00:16:53.550 --> 00:16:54.770
Justin Florentine: um.

115
00:16:55.650 --> 00:16:59.810
Justin Florentine: I think we also want to look at dagger. So um!

116
00:17:00.170 --> 00:17:02.640
Justin Florentine: The work you're doing is definitely valuable,

117
00:17:03.020 --> 00:17:09.890
Justin Florentine: and giving us one form of protocol that we could compare to using dagger as well.

118
00:17:10.050 --> 00:17:11.280
Justin Florentine: Um,

119
00:17:12.140 --> 00:17:19.740
Justin Florentine: so I mean the Tldr for me is like it's an experiment. If you have the time to work on it, then you know, we should try to learn from that experiment.

120
00:17:23.990 --> 00:17:24.980
I mean.

121
00:17:26.819 --> 00:17:29.720
Jiri Peinlich: Well, Mr. Dunno was highlighting uh

122
00:17:29.840 --> 00:17:33.329
Jiri Peinlich: that there might be both potential objections from somebody so

123
00:17:33.760 --> 00:17:35.130
end up officially.

124
00:17:35.160 --> 00:17:36.659
Jiri Peinlich: So did everybody say that

125
00:17:38.800 --> 00:17:41.019
Jiri Peinlich: the current implementation doesn't?

126
00:18:17.120 --> 00:18:19.370
Jiri Peinlich: I don't want to take it up

127
00:18:24.700 --> 00:18:28.019
Jiri Peinlich: into basso current code base.

128
00:18:37.140 --> 00:18:38.950
Justin Florentine: So I don't know a ton about

129
00:18:39.040 --> 00:18:46.399
Justin Florentine: dagger, but from what I did before is, I don't think it would. It's not going to work the same way that spring does where

130
00:18:46.720 --> 00:18:54.540
Justin Florentine: spring wires things up at runtime, and you can point it to the interfaces and implications for it to use, which is what you're leveraging

131
00:18:55.180 --> 00:19:02.160
Justin Florentine: in order to have a dependency injection version of Basu outside of the basic code. Base

132
00:19:02.290 --> 00:19:04.230
Justin Florentine: dagger is all compile time.

133
00:19:05.430 --> 00:19:09.409
Justin Florentine: Um! So i'm not sure that that will actually be possible.

134
00:19:12.900 --> 00:19:14.300
Justin Florentine: Maybe it will.

135
00:19:14.590 --> 00:19:19.850
Jiri Peinlich: So then, then, there's a question how much you for dependencies you want to bring into,

136
00:19:29.740 --> 00:19:36.590
Jiri Peinlich: but other less than more. But yeah, I don't know how to do it otherwise. Then in the way that i'm doing it right now.

137
00:19:37.540 --> 00:19:46.630
Justin Florentine: So that's a nice segue into potentially thinking about um packaging alternatives. I guess the answer to your question would be like, What are the

138
00:19:47.560 --> 00:19:59.740
Justin Florentine: what are the dimensions that we plan on um changing for different package versions of basis. So, for instance, if we want to have a private permissioned

139
00:19:59.750 --> 00:20:08.140
Justin Florentine: variant of they su. Then, you know, that goes to data storage, and maybe some of the um

140
00:20:08.760 --> 00:20:13.860
Justin Florentine: transaction processing right? Those would be differences for a private networks

141
00:20:16.220 --> 00:20:19.800
Karim T.: um, and there's so consolidation, maybe.

142
00:20:19.890 --> 00:20:21.810
Justin Florentine: Uh-huh. Yeah.

143
00:20:26.020 --> 00:20:29.799
Justin Florentine: And I think if we look at the roadmap um

144
00:20:30.640 --> 00:20:37.920
Justin Florentine: Dan I kind of had um a document. I had a child document on there that starts to outline

145
00:20:37.990 --> 00:20:43.669
Justin Florentine: W. What are these different concerns? And how do we think of them? Are they?

146
00:20:44.820 --> 00:20:53.359
Justin Florentine: Um, you know ethereum concerns uh things like P. Twop: networking consensus uh

147
00:20:54.070 --> 00:20:54.970
um,

148
00:20:55.050 --> 00:20:58.040
Justin Florentine: All the crypto type things the Evm itself.

149
00:20:58.160 --> 00:21:06.310
Justin Florentine: Um, Or are they just general software, concerns, like you know, logging, security, observability, et cetera.

150
00:21:07.170 --> 00:21:08.390
Um,

151
00:21:08.910 --> 00:21:11.130
Justin Florentine: So those may.

152
00:21:11.620 --> 00:21:15.089
Justin Florentine: Those different dimensions may help answer your your question, Your

153
00:21:15.750 --> 00:21:16.990
Justin Florentine: Does that make sense?

154
00:21:19.030 --> 00:21:22.439
Jiri Peinlich: It's It's nice. I think. Uh,

155
00:21:22.610 --> 00:21:28.909
Jiri Peinlich: maybe we talk about it again. When Mr. Dunn will be available. You he will be probably having some inputs,

156
00:21:29.040 --> 00:21:46.300
Karim T.: mostly to put it on the recording, I think. And do we want to have a a public channel on this code to discuss about only modularization? How we will, what kind of module we want to create something that just to not uh

157
00:21:47.090 --> 00:22:00.460
Karim T.: to not just add a lot of message on the other channel, and having only one channel that I don't know, but I don't know I I would just do it in basic contributors myself, and if it gets too noisy, then

158
00:22:00.690 --> 00:22:19.230
Karim T.: you know, either start threads or or talk about a a private ch, or not a private, but a different channel. Uh yeah, I think it's It's better, not private, not private, but another channel, because with the all our messages in the basic contributor, it's complex to retrieve a specific message just related to modularization or something like that.

159
00:22:19.240 --> 00:22:23.499
Karim T.: If you have a specific channel, we can follow the thread uh

160
00:22:23.600 --> 00:22:25.730
Karim T.: and and

161
00:22:27.640 --> 00:22:39.990
Justin Florentine: okay. So i'm not quite sure what the permissions on discord are like, but I feel like all of us that are Maintainer should be able to create um.

162
00:22:40.460 --> 00:22:42.729
Karim T.: Maybe

163
00:22:44.080 --> 00:22:49.500
Justin Florentine: i'll try it. Alright. Well, something to something to discuss. Now.

164
00:22:54.320 --> 00:22:57.580
Justin Florentine: Yeah, I I have a button that says, create channel.

165
00:23:01.100 --> 00:23:05.849
Matt Nelson: I think we should wait to discuss to. Uh, I'm not going to push it. Yeah,

166
00:23:06.260 --> 00:23:07.930
Matt Nelson: Um,

167
00:23:09.540 --> 00:23:16.400
Matt Nelson: yeah, do. We should we talk about the release? I think we should stick to the original? Well, the revised timeline of the thirtieth of November?

168
00:23:18.060 --> 00:23:19.290
Matt Nelson: Um.

169
00:23:20.070 --> 00:23:27.339
Matt Nelson: I. A week from tomorrow, a week from today or week from tomorrow.

170
00:23:29.390 --> 00:23:36.139
Matt Nelson: I don't think we should push it back up to tomorrow unless there's I know there was discussion around the twenty stuff

171
00:23:36.580 --> 00:23:38.429
Matt Nelson: and some of the other things there.

172
00:23:38.720 --> 00:23:49.110
Justin Florentine: Yeah, I'm not sure if what we have so far for too many is sufficient to solve the issue that it presents

173
00:23:49.280 --> 00:23:53.819
Matt Nelson: like legacy versioning stuff that Dana was bringing up, which makes sense

174
00:23:54.080 --> 00:23:55.430
Matt Nelson: uh right

175
00:23:57.290 --> 00:23:59.370
Matt Nelson: like. Would we need a back patch?

176
00:23:59.390 --> 00:24:00.790
Matt Nelson: It's probably

177
00:24:01.500 --> 00:24:04.570
Matt Nelson: there to assume that we should create one,

178
00:24:04.830 --> 00:24:09.600
Matt Nelson: or like who should be responsible to create that. My guess is that

179
00:24:09.810 --> 00:24:15.770
Matt Nelson: private networks are not running latest. They're probably on twenty, two, four, or twenty, two, seven

180
00:24:16.750 --> 00:24:17.920
Matt Nelson: um!

181
00:24:18.380 --> 00:24:21.150
Matt Nelson: So we should figure that out. What that looks like

182
00:24:21.510 --> 00:24:24.480
Matt Nelson: if I recall correctly. Palm was like

183
00:24:25.050 --> 00:24:29.079
Matt Nelson: kind of static on like twenty, two, seven, three, or four,

184
00:24:29.100 --> 00:24:38.560
Matt Nelson: and some of these old networks. Uh, we're not old rather, but existing like big prod networks, are definitely not taking our latest changes. So we just need to

185
00:24:39.350 --> 00:24:41.289
Matt Nelson: work on who shouldn't

186
00:24:41.430 --> 00:24:43.520
Matt Nelson: communicate all those out, and

187
00:24:44.730 --> 00:24:53.060
Matt Nelson: work on like How like would we re-release the back port like that. I don't even know what the process would look like. I'm guessing you just rebuild from

188
00:24:53.830 --> 00:24:57.609
Matt Nelson: that release target, and you include the new twenty dependency.

189
00:24:58.770 --> 00:25:00.770
Matt Nelson: So that's Is it that simple?

190
00:25:04.480 --> 00:25:14.049
Justin Florentine: I'm. I'm. Not sure. I think, that there in the past we've also gone in and removed artifacts from distribution? As well. I don't. I don't know if this is that type of situation.

191
00:25:16.190 --> 00:25:18.459
Matt Nelson: Yeah. The problem is, we don't know

192
00:25:18.480 --> 00:25:20.750
Matt Nelson: we don't know what version everyone is running,

193
00:25:21.440 --> 00:25:22.600
Matt Nelson: and

194
00:25:25.300 --> 00:25:28.810
Matt Nelson: there's no like single point of contact for those people to reach out

195
00:25:29.150 --> 00:25:30.249
Matt Nelson: to us.

196
00:25:30.580 --> 00:25:32.930
Matt Nelson: Maybe we should put out a message like

197
00:25:35.220 --> 00:25:38.410
Matt Nelson: I don't know this is a publicly recorded call, right like, How do we

198
00:25:40.320 --> 00:25:43.349
Matt Nelson: want to handle these kinds of security concerns in the future?

199
00:25:44.030 --> 00:25:45.180
Matt Nelson: Um,

200
00:25:46.960 --> 00:25:50.670
Matt Nelson: like? Is there a central repository of these private networks,

201
00:25:50.780 --> 00:25:58.770
Matt Nelson: because if there is, I haven't seen one um, and who should kind of own that communication, I don't necessarily think it should be me or our team, but

202
00:25:58.850 --> 00:26:01.040
Matt Nelson: we should think it through.

203
00:26:01.240 --> 00:26:02.620
Matt Nelson: Um,

204
00:26:07.630 --> 00:26:14.610
Matt Nelson: I guess I can write an email to to Rye and heart and and come up with a plan. I think that that's the

205
00:26:14.800 --> 00:26:17.099
Matt Nelson: easiest way in the short term that

206
00:26:17.750 --> 00:26:22.490
Matt Nelson: should not derail stuff and keep you guys focused.

207
00:26:26.990 --> 00:26:37.689
Matt Nelson: But to your point. If we if we don't have a patch ready for too many, anyway. Then it doesn't really it's kind of a moot point until next week. So we don't have to stress about it for for the release of two thousand and ten. One

208
00:26:38.960 --> 00:26:40.200
Matt Nelson: um.

209
00:26:41.130 --> 00:26:45.160
Matt Nelson: So should I presume that we're not in a cherry pick, and we're going to build for main

210
00:26:45.390 --> 00:26:49.640
Matt Nelson: after we resolve some of the issues and regressions that we've identified.

211
00:26:53.080 --> 00:26:55.550
Justin Florentine: I think we should. Um.

212
00:26:55.620 --> 00:26:59.330
Justin Florentine: I think I may have a different Gary may have a different opinion, though.

213
00:27:00.220 --> 00:27:10.940
Matt Nelson: Yeah, I mean, I think we if we're taking an extra week, two weeks, we should be able to get main in a good place, and we should stop pushing news, new features, and focus on fixing what's in flight

214
00:27:11.410 --> 00:27:16.329
Matt Nelson: like, stop pushing changes essentially, and just focus on what we have for the next two weeks,

215
00:27:17.310 --> 00:27:21.200
Matt Nelson: but I don't know so cream. I know you had some stuff that you were working

216
00:27:21.350 --> 00:27:27.049
Matt Nelson: around. Fix these fixes with a museum that we should definitely not rush out the door for tomorrow.

217
00:27:27.310 --> 00:27:28.160
Karim T.: No,

218
00:27:29.320 --> 00:27:32.989
Karim T.: it it will not. I don't think it will be ready for tomorrow. So yeah,

219
00:27:33.910 --> 00:27:40.520
Karim T.: yeah. So next Wednesday is eight days. I think we have. Yeah.

220
00:27:41.440 --> 00:27:44.819
Matt Nelson: So there's been no push back about this date.

221
00:27:44.920 --> 00:27:56.269
Matt Nelson: I don't think that Antoine would push back to said he can have some extra time to test everything. Um! So I think we can just consider it scheduled for the thirtieth and

222
00:27:56.780 --> 00:27:57.900
Matt Nelson: move on

223
00:28:02.020 --> 00:28:09.210
Matt Nelson: um next agenda item is the charter discussions. This is more for the recording. But

224
00:28:09.590 --> 00:28:14.959
Matt Nelson: um, you know more product strategy and road mapping to share. I know that

225
00:28:15.320 --> 00:28:19.100
Matt Nelson: we, as a basic community, and you know,

226
00:28:19.640 --> 00:28:23.659
Matt Nelson: have been lax and kind of updating some of those roadmap materials. So it's

227
00:28:23.700 --> 00:28:32.839
Matt Nelson: as the dust settles, continues to settle from the merge, we should have more information. Um! I personally have been working on this with

228
00:28:32.970 --> 00:28:38.209
Matt Nelson: the group and getting feedback, and we'll have a proposal to share for the Hyper Ledger community

229
00:28:38.430 --> 00:28:42.260
Matt Nelson: uh on kind of where we see

230
00:28:42.600 --> 00:28:52.779
Matt Nelson: moving over the next year so hopefully that' alleviate some of the roadmap stuff um, but nothing to share as far as actual document. Yet. Um expect that maybe

231
00:28:53.250 --> 00:28:54.490
Matt Nelson: December

232
00:28:55.080 --> 00:28:57.589
Matt Nelson: um, and we'll have something to share

233
00:28:57.690 --> 00:29:00.830
Matt Nelson: and get feedback as a proposal so

234
00:29:01.570 --> 00:29:05.159
Matt Nelson: hopefully by the end of the year we can have a more concrete roadmap

235
00:29:05.420 --> 00:29:13.010
Matt Nelson: to share with the external contributors for contributors, external people that are not contributors, and just the community at large.

236
00:29:13.740 --> 00:29:15.829
Matt Nelson: That's all there is on the charter

237
00:29:16.830 --> 00:29:19.139
Matt Nelson: um. Shanghai planning,

238
00:29:20.110 --> 00:29:21.560
Matt Nelson: continues:

239
00:29:22.040 --> 00:29:26.939
Matt Nelson: I don't really think we need to discuss it much. The documents kind of good, and Dan is

240
00:29:26.980 --> 00:29:29.599
Matt Nelson: the only other person really working on it

241
00:29:30.570 --> 00:29:33.240
Matt Nelson: besides where Dano and his team.

242
00:29:35.800 --> 00:29:36.960
Matt Nelson: So

243
00:29:37.180 --> 00:29:43.209
Matt Nelson: I think that's fine. I think we can. Does anyone have anything else i'd like to discuss. I think we can take the extra five minutes back.

244
00:29:47.710 --> 00:29:49.050
Justin Florentine: I think we're good,

245
00:29:49.610 --> 00:29:50.580
good,

246
00:29:56.650 --> 00:29:59.739
Francesco Andreoli: awesome Thanks, guys. Thanks. Everyone:

247
00:29:59.940 --> 00:30:03.810
Karim T.: Thanks. Yeah.

