WEBVTT

1
00:00:02.580 --> 00:00:04.890
Grace Hartley: awesome share my screen.

2
00:00:07.500 --> 00:00:08.130
Francesco Andreoli: Thanks grace.

3
00:00:08.820 --> 00:00:13.860
Grace Hartley: And here we are Francesca Would you mind taking notes, please, thank you.

4
00:00:15.389 --> 00:00:18.570
Grace Hartley: cool so June 7 contributor call welcome welcome.

5
00:00:18.600 --> 00:00:24.480
Grace Hartley: For basic housekeeping here's the antitrust notice everyone here should be familiar with it, but please follow it.

6
00:00:25.920 --> 00:00:32.070
Grace Hartley: As already mentioned, this means be recorded if you don't want to be recorded drop off and you will get the recording later.

7
00:00:33.120 --> 00:00:38.760
Grace Hartley: Please mute unless speaking and then please feel free to use the raise hand feature from their.

8
00:00:40.080 --> 00:00:41.550
Grace Hartley: General announcements.

9
00:00:44.700 --> 00:00:54.270
Grace Hartley: Nothing we have any maybe just couple things with goal, or we don't have anything on the agenda but global forum is September Dublin if anyone's looking at attending that.

10
00:00:55.500 --> 00:01:00.840
Grace Hartley: And then the just a brief CDP program update is that.

11
00:01:02.340 --> 00:01:08.370
Grace Hartley: Basically, no update since last time contracts are still with legal Linux foundation's legal team.

12
00:01:09.510 --> 00:01:11.970
Grace Hartley: But boy, you know heart go ahead.

13
00:01:13.050 --> 00:01:16.980
Hart Montgomery: hey so just a quick update on that so TIM wants us to move.

14
00:01:18.030 --> 00:01:21.450
Hart Montgomery: within the next couple of weeks on this stuff so i've been trying to.

15
00:01:23.580 --> 00:01:26.160
Hart Montgomery: harangue our legal legal team, to put it politely.

16
00:01:28.350 --> 00:01:30.930
Hart Montgomery: He also wanted us to start listing the.

17
00:01:31.560 --> 00:01:38.400
Hart Montgomery: The main net maintain your contributions, so I was just going to ask if everybody had decided on a.

18
00:01:39.600 --> 00:01:42.780
Hart Montgomery: place or format to put those I know we talked about it last time.

19
00:01:47.940 --> 00:01:51.450
Hart Montgomery: Like did we want it on the wiki or on the github or what.

20
00:01:53.610 --> 00:01:57.150
Danno Ferrin: I think Sally opened up a wiki page but i've been on vacation busy the past.

21
00:01:57.150 --> 00:01:57.660
Hart Montgomery: I didn't.

22
00:01:57.690 --> 00:01:58.230
Danno Ferrin: Nice.

23
00:01:58.530 --> 00:02:00.030
Hart Montgomery: If she did I didn't see it.

24
00:02:01.500 --> 00:02:02.700
Danno Ferrin: there's very little on it.

25
00:02:03.270 --> 00:02:03.630
OK.

26
00:02:05.970 --> 00:02:10.260
Hart Montgomery: I will look for it then perfect, is it there now.

27
00:02:15.120 --> 00:02:18.630
Hart Montgomery: Okay there it is perfect alright, well, I will.

28
00:02:21.330 --> 00:02:25.680
Hart Montgomery: yeah i'll go through that and I may add it that but but that'll be great so.

29
00:02:29.310 --> 00:02:34.920
Hart Montgomery: Thanks yeah and thank you, oh and i'm Sorry, I have to drop by him triple booked for this hour.

30
00:02:36.300 --> 00:02:36.690
Grace Hartley: No worries.

31
00:02:37.200 --> 00:02:38.850
Hart Montgomery: Have a great rest your day, thank you.

32
00:02:38.910 --> 00:02:39.750
Danno Ferrin: Thanks for showing up.

33
00:02:42.300 --> 00:02:42.690
Grace Hartley: cool.

34
00:02:44.460 --> 00:02:45.510
Grace Hartley: Any other announcements.

35
00:02:48.090 --> 00:02:49.860
Grace Hartley: cool release updates.

36
00:02:51.750 --> 00:02:59.580
Grace Hartley: I just pulled this it will say the next one is June 14 just in your own point anything we want to discuss or pull this up so we're looking at it.

37
00:03:01.020 --> 00:03:02.460
Grace Hartley: In relation to releases.

38
00:03:02.970 --> 00:03:03.720
Justin Florentine: I think the only thing.

39
00:03:03.780 --> 00:03:05.220
Justin Florentine: Sorry yeah.

40
00:03:06.000 --> 00:03:08.640
Justin Florentine: I think the only thing I wanted to throw out there, as I might do this.

41
00:03:09.570 --> 00:03:24.240
Justin Florentine: evening time my time because one of the Australian TEAM members wants to be the yes to find has himself listed there as the approval, so I was going to offer to work, his morning my evening to execute that release anybody see any concerns with that.

42
00:03:26.550 --> 00:03:27.330
Gary Schulte: What sorry.

43
00:03:28.500 --> 00:03:31.770
Gary Schulte: what's the day the week is June 15 it's not Friday.

44
00:03:35.730 --> 00:03:36.330
Justin Florentine: Wednesday

45
00:03:36.630 --> 00:03:38.520
Gary Schulte: Wednesday yeah that makes sense.

46
00:03:43.320 --> 00:03:47.490
Danno Ferrin: What are we going to get the next tdd for the next test net will that be in this release.

47
00:03:48.630 --> 00:03:53.940
Justin Florentine: We got it for robson so that is in this release it's actually already merged to me.

48
00:03:54.870 --> 00:04:08.760
Gary Schulte: You know my understanding is that friday's a CD call is supposed to be largely about merging may net and and so forth, so i'm guessing will probably maybe see likes a polio or girly tdd possibly.

49
00:04:09.360 --> 00:04:11.340
Danno Ferrin: it's a polio is click as well right.

50
00:04:11.520 --> 00:04:13.170
Gary Schulte: Now suppose proof of work actually.

51
00:04:13.470 --> 00:04:13.830
Okay.

52
00:04:19.200 --> 00:04:24.330
Gary Schulte: it'll be nice to get that in under the wire before the release if it's decided on Friday, but if not.

53
00:04:25.770 --> 00:04:30.510
Danno Ferrin: Well, now we know that the contracts first before we announce a tdd yeah.

54
00:04:30.660 --> 00:04:32.190
Gary Schulte: Right, especially on proof of work.

55
00:04:39.090 --> 00:04:40.800
Grace Hartley: Okay, so sounds like you know.

56
00:04:41.550 --> 00:04:52.620
Grace Hartley: Barring any surprises, and this week's Friday call it a CD called will be on track for the 15th and no concerns or.

57
00:04:53.670 --> 00:04:54.060
Grace Hartley: Issues.

58
00:04:56.730 --> 00:05:00.420
Grace Hartley: And, if anything, does change just let the group know and discord from from the radical.

59
00:05:03.840 --> 00:05:06.570
Grace Hartley: whoops I don't know I click something sorry.

60
00:05:10.140 --> 00:05:17.670
Grace Hartley: Go okay i'm work updates merge update justin I believe you were the one who added this updated.

61
00:05:18.150 --> 00:05:25.530
Justin Florentine: I did um so brief synopsis mean that shadow fork six went pretty well.

62
00:05:26.730 --> 00:05:38.220
Justin Florentine: Everybody made it through everybody stayed in sync we didn't see any of the areas that we previously saw we were running both bonds and snap sync on all of those notes, so that was fun to have that validated.

63
00:05:39.600 --> 00:05:45.150
Justin Florentine: However, we were failing, we were making proposals we weren't including any transactions in them.

64
00:05:45.690 --> 00:06:03.330
Justin Florentine: Upon investigation, it turned out that we had a bug with regard to the transaction pool that prevented us from at adding any transactions, if our best here was more than 100 blocks ahead and it turns out when you're on a shadow for that's going to happen.

65
00:06:04.560 --> 00:06:16.890
Justin Florentine: So that happened that's been addressed, and it kind of brought up the question on how best to disconnect from the proof of work network so that's kind of where we're at right now.

66
00:06:17.940 --> 00:06:29.340
Justin Florentine: There are other teams have this problem as well there's no clear strategy for Disconnecting from the proof of work network and the discussions kind of ongoing in discord.

67
00:06:30.390 --> 00:06:38.130
Justin Florentine: So that's just a status update just let people know where we're going that we're feeling pretty good so questions.

68
00:06:38.160 --> 00:06:39.150
Justin Florentine: Comments concerns.

69
00:06:41.580 --> 00:06:50.370
Gary Schulte: And we merge your PR that disables that following distance for transaction pool the remote transactions inclusion.

70
00:06:50.400 --> 00:06:55.470
Justin Florentine: Yes, yes and that's and that has been redeployed to being that shadow work six it.

71
00:06:56.700 --> 00:07:04.950
Justin Florentine: sort of works i'm not confident that we found all of the problems with it because the proposals that are coming through a while some of them do have transactions others do not.

72
00:07:05.340 --> 00:07:15.270
Justin Florentine: And the ones that do have transactions seem awfully light like they have like four transactions in them which doesn't quite pass the sniff test so that's what i'm investigating today.

73
00:07:16.770 --> 00:07:19.470
Gary Schulte: yeah there could be some 1559 dynamics at play there too.

74
00:07:20.460 --> 00:07:20.820
huh.

75
00:07:26.280 --> 00:07:31.950
Francesco Andreoli: Just do you need any support for the blog posts like terms of I don't know as a.

76
00:07:34.170 --> 00:07:36.570
Justin Florentine: blog posts, what do you mean like with regard to the release.

77
00:07:37.650 --> 00:07:45.600
Francesco Andreoli: yeah know someone wrote here once ready worked in a blog post and results, I know, let me know if there is anything like an apple.

78
00:07:46.050 --> 00:07:49.380
Justin Florentine: Oh Okay, I did not write that but.

79
00:07:51.750 --> 00:07:53.760
Justin Florentine: I will reach out to you, if I need help with the partners.

80
00:07:54.600 --> 00:07:56.580
Gary Schulte: I think that's about checkpoint sync.

81
00:07:57.420 --> 00:07:59.070
Justin Florentine: Yes, oh good.

82
00:08:04.320 --> 00:08:07.650
Justin Florentine: All right, does that mean cream is up and we're gonna talk about checkpoints.

83
00:08:10.530 --> 00:08:12.960
Karim T.: As I can talk about right yeah.

84
00:08:13.800 --> 00:08:15.450
Karim T.: So, so I can give.

85
00:08:15.450 --> 00:08:22.290
Karim T.: You an update, so we melcher checkpoint sink on the main branch so it's like this it's the same we have your snapped.

86
00:08:22.530 --> 00:08:33.870
Karim T.: sync but the only difference is, we are not downloading the block from the genesys, but we are done and things are blocked from the specific checkpoints, so it can be a month or blog or something like that.

87
00:08:34.620 --> 00:08:44.160
Karim T.: The information of these blockages in genesis so if a user wants to verify he can just check the generic directly and it's.

88
00:08:44.790 --> 00:08:57.660
Karim T.: Only available for main net rob Stan and golly but it's easy to add this mechanism to Arizona talk We just have to add the checkpoint section insurgencies of the network.

89
00:08:58.560 --> 00:09:14.850
Karim T.: So we did some test and with the quran checkpoint and visa current size of the network four minutes less than six hours to synchronize another and for girly it's less it's only one hour.

90
00:09:15.990 --> 00:09:26.640
Karim T.: So we will have to update these checkpoints regularly so maybe not for every release but regarding, we need to update these checkpoints and.

91
00:09:27.570 --> 00:09:39.750
Karim T.: So we'll have to add background mechanism to do not all of the block before the checkpoint in order to support network, and in order to give this book to those appeals.

92
00:09:41.790 --> 00:09:42.180
Karim T.: it's all.

93
00:09:46.920 --> 00:09:54.720
Danno Ferrin: So for a little bit of context guess has a similar mechanism, they work off of like clients back where they have a specific.

94
00:09:56.190 --> 00:10:06.090
Danno Ferrin: epoch number and they check the state, so this is not like we're creating a new idea of check pointing stuff we're doing some strange all bitcoin chain thing this is something that other big clients do.

95
00:10:09.210 --> 00:10:09.510
Karim T.: Is.

96
00:10:13.350 --> 00:10:13.950
Gary Schulte: How frequently.

97
00:10:14.730 --> 00:10:16.080
Gary Schulte: Doc checkpoint.

98
00:10:23.100 --> 00:10:23.490
Helen George: grace.

99
00:10:23.910 --> 00:10:24.600
Grace Hartley: Very first.

100
00:10:25.200 --> 00:10:25.980
Helen George: Sorry okay.

101
00:10:26.820 --> 00:10:27.180
Sorry.

102
00:10:28.200 --> 00:10:35.910
Gary Schulte: just wondering how how frequently we think we would need to update the checkpoint that I think that gets checkpoints of further like light stuff I haven't been updated in quite some time right.

103
00:10:36.270 --> 00:10:37.980
Gary Schulte: Like they're over over a year and change old.

104
00:10:38.640 --> 00:10:40.860
Danno Ferrin: November so.

105
00:10:41.070 --> 00:10:51.300
Danno Ferrin: There is a checkpoint is that they track on the main net and that hasn't been updated in quite a while, but they also update in their code itself and the last time they updated, it was in November.

106
00:10:51.810 --> 00:10:55.560
Danno Ferrin: I think a like to update their is when they have known security issues.

107
00:10:56.910 --> 00:11:00.180
Danno Ferrin: To to encourage people to you know the stuff that might cause breakages.

108
00:11:04.230 --> 00:11:12.060
Danno Ferrin: If we don't update it was still getting the same value on that, but I think we should consider it like quarterly or every half million blocks or so, but i'm flexible.

109
00:11:13.170 --> 00:11:13.470
Karim T.: yeah.

110
00:11:15.120 --> 00:11:25.830
Gary Schulte: that'd be a good like quarterly release strategy like it would make sense that, on every quarterly release we would update the checkpoint checkpoints.

111
00:11:32.640 --> 00:11:34.500
Grace Hartley: Do you want to take an action on that or do we want to.

112
00:11:37.740 --> 00:11:39.690
Grace Hartley: Just set a reminder somewhere.

113
00:11:40.050 --> 00:11:42.480
Matt Nelson: I think we can add it to the release checklist.

114
00:11:43.380 --> 00:11:43.890
Grace Hartley: makes sense.

115
00:11:45.750 --> 00:11:48.900
Matt Nelson: For you just take a note here, I can track it down and put it there.

116
00:11:49.800 --> 00:11:52.110
Grace Hartley: cool Francesco do you mind just tracking that.

117
00:11:53.250 --> 00:11:56.790
Grace Hartley: yeah Thank you cool that's good idea, though, good I.

118
00:11:59.340 --> 00:12:01.890
Grace Hartley: Make sure keeping up to date cool.

119
00:12:03.870 --> 00:12:04.770
Grace Hartley: Anything else.

120
00:12:06.420 --> 00:12:08.670
Helen George: Is there a place where we can learn more about it.

121
00:12:10.530 --> 00:12:12.270
Karim T.: And not yet, but.

122
00:12:13.410 --> 00:12:14.130
Karim T.: Marty.

123
00:12:15.540 --> 00:12:16.710
Karim T.: wants to create a blog.

124
00:12:17.850 --> 00:12:25.080
Karim T.: Post about that, and maybe we read it so i'm just kind of information on the documentation I don't know if you have more context.

125
00:12:25.740 --> 00:12:40.830
Matt Nelson: yeah Now I want to put together, I want to start with the docs and then go to a blog post so i'm going to try to work with the docs team to get that lined up it's like Chris said it's pretty straightforward so it's just a matter of making sure that we outline all of the considerations.

126
00:12:45.210 --> 00:12:45.900
Helen George: Any Thank you.

127
00:12:50.070 --> 00:12:53.400
Grace Hartley: Sorry, you know you have a question directed over to you.

128
00:12:56.280 --> 00:12:58.320
Grace Hartley: Any no other work updates.

129
00:13:02.730 --> 00:13:11.250
Grace Hartley: sounds good other business, so I don't think I made security about requesting sure pretty sure this is old and there are no no updates.

130
00:13:13.470 --> 00:13:14.070
Danno Ferrin: about the audit.

131
00:13:16.620 --> 00:13:32.430
Grace Hartley: A yeah yeah no so just so just wanted to confirm the on this one, we have the list for the containers and on cloud moneychangers I know Sally was owning a bunch of this over the last few weeks, is it was just any action on the on the spirit that the group should discuss.

132
00:13:32.820 --> 00:13:34.800
Danno Ferrin: yeah we went with a lightweight process.

133
00:13:34.890 --> 00:13:38.160
Danno Ferrin: yeah and the vouching and that's been committed and merged.

134
00:13:40.020 --> 00:13:41.100
Grace Hartley: cool cool cool okay.

135
00:13:43.980 --> 00:13:45.540
Danno Ferrin: No, I see what's on the agenda there.

136
00:13:46.350 --> 00:13:48.600
Grace Hartley: You know Francesca do you mind.

137
00:13:48.990 --> 00:14:00.330
Grace Hartley: just maybe adding to the notes just pulling the links from just the decision and confirming that this is where it is and then we'll be sure to remove this from the agenda for the next call.

138
00:14:02.100 --> 00:14:06.000
Grace Hartley: Thank you go security audit yes deanna or any other.

139
00:14:06.630 --> 00:14:07.500
questions on this one.

140
00:14:10.980 --> 00:14:12.180
Grace Hartley: Okay yeah security yet.

141
00:14:14.340 --> 00:14:14.580
Danno Ferrin: So.

142
00:14:14.610 --> 00:14:15.960
Danno Ferrin: they're going to pick up the audit.

143
00:14:16.110 --> 00:14:17.460
On the 17th of June.

144
00:14:18.570 --> 00:14:19.290
Danno Ferrin: Which.

145
00:14:19.350 --> 00:14:22.920
Danno Ferrin: Even though it's later than expected, we probably will wind up finishing the audit before.

146
00:14:23.940 --> 00:14:34.260
Danno Ferrin: The merge actually happens six weeks puts us at the end of July early August, and that is still before when we expect the merge to happen so we'll be able to say we have an audited client before the merge.

147
00:14:35.670 --> 00:14:39.660
Danno Ferrin: The the last time they did an audit like this, they found some of the issues like the.

148
00:14:40.950 --> 00:14:41.310
Danno Ferrin: The.

149
00:14:43.230 --> 00:14:53.250
Danno Ferrin: graph to well they found a denial of service attacks they do some pretty good standard searches on it, the focus on this one is going to be on the audit expose api's as a priority.

150
00:14:54.390 --> 00:14:56.970
Danno Ferrin: So yeah there's nothing to report yet, because nothing has happened.

151
00:14:58.110 --> 00:15:01.320
Danno Ferrin: If you get a ping to fix an issue it's auto related.

152
00:15:03.390 --> 00:15:10.230
Danno Ferrin: will probably let you know how quiet, you need to keep it it'll be all reported in the end, but we're going to fix it as we find out, I think, is a current plan.

153
00:15:10.800 --> 00:15:20.160
Danno Ferrin: So yeah treat these like security disclosures if you get bug fixes related to it, which means they will be disclosed so as you write your stuff down realize that there will be an audience.

154
00:15:26.160 --> 00:15:27.060
Gary Schulte: Is that they're going to be.

155
00:15:27.090 --> 00:15:32.130
Gary Schulte: Communicating on the discord audit channel, or is it going to be mostly via email for the disclosures or.

156
00:15:32.190 --> 00:15:35.880
Danno Ferrin: have asked for the discord we'll see what happens when they start every.

157
00:15:36.330 --> 00:15:40.590
Danno Ferrin: Every odd it's different if it's email i'll be sure to bring into the discord.

158
00:15:46.980 --> 00:15:48.420
Danno Ferrin: i'm hoping it's going to be the discord.

159
00:15:51.060 --> 00:15:51.540
Danno Ferrin: Yes.

160
00:15:51.600 --> 00:15:52.650
Gary Schulte: definitely better way of.

161
00:15:53.550 --> 00:15:56.430
Gary Schulte: Getting attention and throwing them you get another email.

162
00:15:57.210 --> 00:15:57.750
Gary Schulte: on fire.

163
00:16:05.640 --> 00:16:08.610
Grace Hartley: That sounds good yeah and plus one to discord.

164
00:16:10.140 --> 00:16:13.920
Grace Hartley: Any other comments or questions in the security audit concerns.

165
00:16:18.300 --> 00:16:18.630
Grace Hartley: Go.

166
00:16:19.830 --> 00:16:20.580
Grace Hartley: validate your screen.

167
00:16:21.900 --> 00:16:22.440
Grace Hartley: Yet.

168
00:16:22.710 --> 00:16:24.150
Matt Nelson: yeah I can talk about this quickly.

169
00:16:25.740 --> 00:16:35.040
Matt Nelson: This is in relation to some of the features that we've been developing more recently targeting the kind of post proof of work world for basic adoption.

170
00:16:35.460 --> 00:16:48.870
Matt Nelson: So i'm working with some of the hyper ledger marketing folks to try to set up a couple of different workshops and webinars around enterprise staking what it means and basically post merge infrastructure in general.

171
00:16:50.910 --> 00:16:55.950
Matt Nelson: So you know nothing, nothing quite complete yet we're looking to basically come up with.

172
00:16:56.160 --> 00:17:06.180
Matt Nelson: A framework to engage the folks first and send out some kind of emails or informal feedback requests on like What do people know about the merge, what do they know about public networks and staking.

173
00:17:06.870 --> 00:17:14.880
Matt Nelson: And then use that to kind of tailor a set of workshops that we are hoping to do right around the timing of the merge or a little bit soon after.

174
00:17:15.300 --> 00:17:24.300
Matt Nelson: So no big updates on this yet, but I wanted to showcase a lot of the hard work that all the teams have been doing around you know the emerging around some of the features related to.

175
00:17:24.870 --> 00:17:31.560
Matt Nelson: Proof of stake So hopefully we can get the ball rolling on some more traction with this, and maybe even bring in some of hyper ledger's.

176
00:17:31.950 --> 00:17:40.110
Matt Nelson: You know enterprise focused people to be more interested in what's going on in May net and if not, then maybe they'll learn a little bit more about public networks, regardless.

177
00:17:41.250 --> 00:17:43.980
Matt Nelson: that's all for that, for now, no, no major updates quite yet.

178
00:17:48.750 --> 00:17:50.790
Matt Nelson: If you want to help me make those workshops, let me know.

179
00:17:52.500 --> 00:17:56.070
Matt Nelson: I will need some support, but for the most part i'll be handling it with David.

180
00:17:57.240 --> 00:17:58.500
Matt Nelson: I can help organizing that.

181
00:17:58.830 --> 00:17:59.490
Francesco Andreoli: there's a need.

182
00:18:00.570 --> 00:18:01.080
Francesco Andreoli: or something.

183
00:18:01.710 --> 00:18:02.970
Francesco Andreoli: thankfulness Francesco.

184
00:18:05.850 --> 00:18:06.450
Grace Hartley: yeah be cool.

185
00:18:07.230 --> 00:18:21.180
Grace Hartley: um on that note, there is just anton's doing a workshop and I don't remember when it is or if it I feel like it might have been this week or next week, but just on that note, if you have.

186
00:18:22.530 --> 00:18:24.180
Grace Hartley: folks that are interested in.

187
00:18:27.360 --> 00:18:35.430
Grace Hartley: getting started or kind of learning how to run me soo that workshops probably a great resource apologies I don't have the link, for me, so I don't.

188
00:18:37.590 --> 00:18:39.240
Matt Nelson: In the chat I think it's.

189
00:18:40.350 --> 00:18:43.830
Matt Nelson: it's coming up in next month actually so there's a little time.

190
00:18:44.160 --> 00:18:44.850
Grace Hartley: Other as time.

191
00:18:47.010 --> 00:18:49.890
Matt Nelson: passes here but yeah if you.

192
00:18:50.490 --> 00:18:56.100
Matt Nelson: want to share this on any of your networks that would be receptive it's specifically around.

193
00:18:57.690 --> 00:19:06.930
Matt Nelson: You know, using kind of extensions of basic, but at the same time there's definitely a lot of talks about configuration and setting up a basic network and then talking through.

194
00:19:07.650 --> 00:19:15.030
Matt Nelson: extensions to the base to network and using spunk and things like that, but but I basically I pasted the information the chat so you can take a look.

195
00:19:19.620 --> 00:19:21.060
Grace Hartley: sounds good, thank you.

196
00:19:22.680 --> 00:19:24.870
Justin Florentine: Does anyone know if Anton needs any help that.

197
00:19:26.880 --> 00:19:28.410
Justin Florentine: Is it, this is the antwan thing right.

198
00:19:31.410 --> 00:19:31.650
Justin Florentine: The one.

199
00:19:32.760 --> 00:19:36.930
Grace Hartley: yep that's what he yes it's what he's running I don't know if he needs help with it.

200
00:19:38.670 --> 00:19:40.200
Justin Florentine: I figured he would have reached out if he did.

201
00:19:40.350 --> 00:19:40.710
But.

202
00:19:42.030 --> 00:19:45.570
Justin Florentine: i'm super psyched for it, so you know i'm really looking forward to it.

203
00:19:48.000 --> 00:19:48.570
Justin Florentine: yeah.

204
00:19:50.040 --> 00:19:50.640
Justin Florentine: Alright, thanks.

205
00:19:50.670 --> 00:19:58.740
Grace Hartley: yeah same yeah no I think it'll be really great but yeah I mean feel free to reach out to him, but he hasn't I haven't seen any messages or you know gotten the request.

206
00:19:59.820 --> 00:20:01.260
Grace Hartley: If he's looking for specific help.

207
00:20:05.220 --> 00:20:07.800
Grace Hartley: cool yeah thanks I thought it, I think I.

208
00:20:08.970 --> 00:20:11.520
Grace Hartley: misread that thought it was June 14 2014.

209
00:20:13.290 --> 00:20:14.070
Grace Hartley: sounds good.

210
00:20:16.650 --> 00:20:24.360
Grace Hartley: metrics if the group doesn't disagree, I might skip that today, and just go right to the roadmap matt you're probably right person for this.

211
00:20:26.610 --> 00:20:29.400
Matt Nelson: Yes, let me pull up the roadmap, so I don't make any.

212
00:20:30.300 --> 00:20:31.110
mistakes.

213
00:20:35.820 --> 00:20:47.250
Matt Nelson: I made just some some quick changes around we we didn't have a slotted in time for cleanup post merge if you scroll down actually varies I think everyone's kind of on board around.

214
00:20:48.630 --> 00:20:57.810
Matt Nelson: there's not much change besides kind of full steam ahead on some improvements to the client, as well as just merge related activity and spec spec stuff so.

215
00:20:58.290 --> 00:21:12.210
Matt Nelson: that's the bug fixes and testing that we're doing now that's the hive to testing that we're doing with the test suites and other things like that so really just continuing full steam ahead around the merge for 25 and any subsequent releases.

216
00:21:14.670 --> 00:21:27.630
Matt Nelson: For 28 the again I added the first bullet here around merging plus merge cleanup I anticipate that there will be a significant period where we need to kind of take a breather and focus on alleviation of some.

217
00:21:27.960 --> 00:21:36.870
Matt Nelson: an accumulation of issues i'd say and just going to reinvestigate some of the work that we had done around new specs and functionality to make sure that everything is kind of rock solid.

218
00:21:37.320 --> 00:21:46.170
Matt Nelson: So you know we're seeing an uptick in folks that are using basic which is great, so you know we've we've seen significant improvement of network share based on our.

219
00:21:46.680 --> 00:21:56.640
Matt Nelson: Previously, small numbers but still, and I want to make sure that all these new folks that continue to start using basic and start testing out have good experiences, and that includes a lot of this cleanup so.

220
00:21:57.390 --> 00:22:04.050
Matt Nelson: Focusing some sprints on tech debt reduction, I think, is valuable I think it's what we're going to look to prioritize right after the merge.

221
00:22:04.680 --> 00:22:13.770
Matt Nelson: While we do some of the investigation about what's next I don't think we need to rush into anything dramatic following the merge will take a breather it's also going to be.

222
00:22:14.220 --> 00:22:19.800
Matt Nelson: Either the end of the summer or the beginning of the fall and I anticipate people will want to take time for themselves as well.

223
00:22:20.490 --> 00:22:30.510
Matt Nelson: So looking to again focus on optimizations and improvements for the short term, while we determine kind of what's next, and that also includes some of the upcoming hard forks.

224
00:22:32.250 --> 00:22:47.520
Matt Nelson: That are potentially coming down the Pike after the merge there is Shanghai, that is probably not going to be slated for the 22 eight release is just My guess based on the timing Shanghai has been pretty much pushed if you if you scroll down a little bit Greece it's down there.

225
00:22:49.560 --> 00:22:54.450
Matt Nelson: And again, supporting some of the different client enhancements that we've been thinking about kind of for a while and now have.

226
00:22:55.020 --> 00:23:04.680
Matt Nelson: Time to prioritize while we do general discovery on things like modular ization and some of the other use cases that have cropped up since the previous.

227
00:23:05.490 --> 00:23:13.710
Matt Nelson: Focus shifts around the merge so that's that's all I have on the roadmap, I see Helen Helen here is raising her hand and i'm sure she might have some input.

228
00:23:16.680 --> 00:23:21.330
Helen George: hey yeah thanks man, so if you kind of like scroll up a bed.

229
00:23:22.200 --> 00:23:42.120
Helen George: Under the now section, you might have seen a bit more update they're all kind of took out some other stuff that's been going around like snap sync VOD release it's out there, so remove that part what's added is so there's like two other streams of work that's happening within this shoe.

230
00:23:43.140 --> 00:23:56.400
Helen George: So one work Stream is investigating how we might improve peering so The goal is like first like let's come up define what makes a good peer, how do we find them fast.

231
00:23:57.120 --> 00:24:08.400
Helen George: Hopefully that's going to allow us to sync faster and to to the accurate state faster so there's a work stream group of engineers containers, you know.

232
00:24:09.240 --> 00:24:21.180
Helen George: investigating make how we might do that so that could be like improving pure discovery speed currently experimenting around.

233
00:24:22.140 --> 00:24:34.860
Helen George: reputation scoring system So how do we reward versus punish good or bad behaviors from peers, and how does that affect us finding good set of peers so.

234
00:24:35.640 --> 00:24:45.420
Helen George: kind of like brainstorming through what that means, and then experimenting there would definitely love to kind of share with the wider community what our experiment results are like and have.

235
00:24:45.930 --> 00:24:53.700
Helen George: You know other maintain there's also kind of like chime in how can we make this a bit more robust another work Stream is.

236
00:24:54.360 --> 00:25:04.950
Helen George: Improving node operations, so what we realized, there are a bunch of folks who are upgrading nodes so we're kind of calling them node operators.

237
00:25:05.580 --> 00:25:20.070
Helen George: And we want to make them help them like scale knows faster since they're like operating bunch of notes together so doing some investigation there as well, trying to like, how can we.

238
00:25:21.120 --> 00:25:33.960
Helen George: Help them scale fast with lower costs, perhaps so still in a very early stage it's religious identity through different ideas, but as more kind of ideas as as it.

239
00:25:34.350 --> 00:25:42.270
Helen George: gets firmer would love to kind of share more during these calls in the future, and I think matt already touched upon it like.

240
00:25:43.170 --> 00:25:58.080
Helen George: In under the next section, the modular ization of issue, I know, like some maintenance have been talking about this a lot so we're still also in the early stage we're trying to understand like what's the benefit what's the pros and cons to it.

241
00:25:58.710 --> 00:26:05.250
Helen George: For a minute what's the goal that we like to accomplish as part of this so starting early conversations here.

242
00:26:06.690 --> 00:26:21.330
Helen George: And ultimately would love to see the release cycle job for best to and wider adoption of this issue so stay tuned we'll keep y'all posted so yeah Those are the points that I wanted to share.

243
00:26:27.420 --> 00:26:29.040
Grace Hartley: Any questions or comments.

244
00:26:33.600 --> 00:26:34.890
Gary Schulte: So the question about the roadmap.

245
00:26:35.460 --> 00:26:41.730
Gary Schulte: The dot five and eight are we to be go for a different release cadence I just missed that.

246
00:26:42.090 --> 00:26:52.020
Matt Nelson: Now I noticed that, too, I think you got screwed up at some point, based on some of the ways that we've moved it around i'll double check against what we have and updated, I think that you're right that it is wrong.

247
00:26:53.520 --> 00:26:55.260
Danno Ferrin: i'm not sure what I was expecting seven.

248
00:26:56.550 --> 00:26:57.240
Danno Ferrin: one.

249
00:26:57.600 --> 00:27:02.010
Matt Nelson: yeah that's what I thought too i'll fix it small small update.

250
00:27:04.890 --> 00:27:08.700
Helen George: Sorry, that was me tinkering around, as I was updating it oh.

251
00:27:08.790 --> 00:27:10.380
Helen George: How about I increment them all.

252
00:27:11.790 --> 00:27:12.450
Helen George: newbie.

253
00:27:14.220 --> 00:27:15.150
Helen George: mistake sorry.

254
00:27:17.850 --> 00:27:19.230
Matt Nelson: No problem they're tied to the month.

255
00:27:19.260 --> 00:27:20.400
Matt Nelson: Helen of the.

256
00:27:20.430 --> 00:27:22.110
Helen George: Release of.

257
00:27:23.100 --> 00:27:25.410
Helen George: The numbering clever very clever.

258
00:27:26.130 --> 00:27:29.880
Gary Schulte: I was wondering if there was some talk about maybe having a.

259
00:27:29.910 --> 00:27:37.020
Gary Schulte: Release version system more like tech who does where it's just your month rather than your quarter, but yeah I.

260
00:27:38.070 --> 00:27:39.870
Gary Schulte: Thought maybe that had happened and I wasn't aware of it.

261
00:27:41.250 --> 00:27:44.160
Danno Ferrin: it's always been your mouth my initial pitch was year dot.

262
00:27:44.190 --> 00:27:53.850
Danno Ferrin: Frequency released like Raul, but when you do your Monte make it clear just how current it is, but we did decide at the time to stick with quarterly releases, because we do.

263
00:27:54.660 --> 00:28:03.360
Danno Ferrin: At least notionally we do more debugging we have we put more speculative stuff in the quarterly releases and we do the bi weekly releases that gives us a few extra week to shake it out.

264
00:28:04.590 --> 00:28:16.830
Danno Ferrin: But I know a lot of projects that they decide their number of the day, they do the release and that determines the day month, so we have that flexibility we had to go to the tasc to get calvary approved, but because calvary is approved.

265
00:28:17.910 --> 00:28:32.520
Danno Ferrin: We can you know we don't we're not fixed on the 147 10 we can move it around if we want to if it fits us better we could go to three times a year, we could you know, change the number every month, it really doesn't you know we have a lot of flexibility.

266
00:28:37.200 --> 00:28:39.750
Gary Schulte: I personally am good with the 147 10 I like that it.

267
00:28:39.960 --> 00:28:45.450
Gary Schulte: aligns with you know kind of ubuntu and release strategy it's kind of a well known.

268
00:28:46.560 --> 00:28:48.390
Gary Schulte: calvert sort of strategy.

269
00:28:55.890 --> 00:28:57.240
Grace Hartley: cool yeah to call.

270
00:28:58.560 --> 00:29:02.970
Grace Hartley: And Helen we can share the calvary and the Caldera like proposal just to.

271
00:29:04.320 --> 00:29:08.340
Grace Hartley: Just to be bored why we chose that release cadence.

272
00:29:09.390 --> 00:29:11.490
Grace Hartley: Any anything else on the roadmap, I know, foot back.

273
00:29:19.320 --> 00:29:27.870
Grace Hartley: yeah we used to do semantic version in how we switched to counter version eight years so you're to a little over a year and a half ago.

274
00:29:29.250 --> 00:29:29.700
Grace Hartley: um.

275
00:29:32.220 --> 00:29:41.820
Grace Hartley: One thing that I just wanted to call out that just to say good job everybody is it really seems that the new feature that route remix pruning.

276
00:29:42.840 --> 00:29:51.960
Grace Hartley: is really popular and that's really exciting and it seems like that's you know, been a big hit for users and just wanted to say that's really cool so congrats.

277
00:29:54.510 --> 00:29:55.710
Matt Nelson: yeah people love bonsai.

278
00:29:56.130 --> 00:29:57.000
Grace Hartley: yeah yeah.

279
00:30:01.380 --> 00:30:02.310
Grace Hartley: yeah awesome work.

280
00:30:04.950 --> 00:30:08.160
Grace Hartley: cool man is there, do you want to talk with the roll up.

281
00:30:09.630 --> 00:30:10.320
Grace Hartley: Section here.

282
00:30:11.160 --> 00:30:13.080
Matt Nelson: Not too much quite yet.

283
00:30:14.550 --> 00:30:26.160
Matt Nelson: it's again this is definitely a post merge activity, and this is part of a larger kind of Maltese chain strategy that I wanted to bring up with the contributors, at some point but it's not quite big yet.

284
00:30:27.570 --> 00:30:36.450
Matt Nelson: Essentially you know if we move if we do decide to you know, in the in the post merge world to think about modular ization multi chain, more seriously, what does that look like.

285
00:30:37.680 --> 00:30:49.380
Matt Nelson: Where does base you fit into that equation, do we choose to support roll ups, we choose to support you know other html ones, you know what does this all look like do we make it modular and then say go to town for other contributors.

286
00:30:50.160 --> 00:31:07.170
Matt Nelson: Again it's very early days, but we we do you know I have been discussing with other ecosystem folks around optimistic roll ups at large and there's also a desire for client diversity at the optimistic roll up and probably ck roll up level.

287
00:31:08.670 --> 00:31:21.240
Matt Nelson: And you know, since they're using some of the standard api's what you know what could be soo as a you know, an execution client do to support that and again it's a little early but i'm curious what people might think going forward.

288
00:31:22.470 --> 00:31:23.430
Matt Nelson: Since we you know.

289
00:31:24.600 --> 00:31:40.950
Matt Nelson: We do support multiple chains now, and you know what could it look like to kind of lean into that a little bit, as we see more and more proliferation of these things but pretty early for, especially for 22 seven, this is probably like 2023 target stuff.

290
00:31:43.560 --> 00:31:56.370
Danno Ferrin: So i've been not paying attention to roll ups for the past six months, are they still doing custom fraud proofs or is there a standardization, I really haven't painted petition attention to optimistic to optimism, but is there.

291
00:31:56.400 --> 00:32:04.260
Danno Ferrin: Some custom we're gonna have to redo our Patricia trees, I mean we're gonna have to redo it for verticals so that's not necessarily a bad thing.

292
00:32:04.920 --> 00:32:06.540
Matt Nelson: yeah now, so I mean.

293
00:32:06.900 --> 00:32:14.400
Matt Nelson: it's mostly about the the block production aspect they're basically hijacking a lot of the engine api's they're not necessarily doing the fraud proofs.

294
00:32:14.460 --> 00:32:17.730
Matt Nelson: Like I don't think we'd have to change much of our state storage paradigm.

295
00:32:18.150 --> 00:32:26.070
Matt Nelson: And from what i've gathered there's like four to 500 line difference between what they're using on death and what we have now, so my presumption, is that they haven't rewritten the.

296
00:32:26.640 --> 00:32:33.360
Matt Nelson: Like the state storage entirely I needed like I said I need to do a little more discovery on what this actually looks like but from my my understanding.

297
00:32:34.320 --> 00:32:43.710
Matt Nelson: It would mostly be around like it wouldn't be outside it would mostly be around block production and certain components within that and using it to.

298
00:32:44.820 --> 00:32:56.670
Matt Nelson: You know execute the large number of transactions, but I don't know how it would impact the state storage and stuff like that, and the the fraud proofs but from optimistic roll ups, the answer is probably no because they're they're not really doing it.

299
00:32:58.680 --> 00:33:03.930
Matt Nelson: You know that a lot of it's not really it's kind of a social construct, is it as opposed to a state storage construct.

300
00:33:04.770 --> 00:33:14.550
Matt Nelson: But, but for Z KPS that from what i've gathered inside of consensus and otherwise, is that there might be some changes, when you do, but for the most part it's just piggybacking off of the engine API.

301
00:33:15.600 --> 00:33:30.630
Matt Nelson: and basically pretending it's a cl client and then running a roll up kind of elsewhere and using the execution layer, for you know interaction with the l one and certain other parts of that kind of process.

302
00:33:31.890 --> 00:33:34.140
Danno Ferrin: Are optimism and.

303
00:33:34.380 --> 00:33:39.720
Danno Ferrin: Arbitrary was still running sequencers they got a plan to get off that yes.

304
00:33:40.440 --> 00:33:56.130
Matt Nelson: No plan yet they're still running these you know the beefy centralized sequencers there's some proposals on how to kind of move away, but for now that's the de facto and I don't even know we how we would participate in that process My guess is that we would not.

305
00:33:56.940 --> 00:34:00.060
Matt Nelson: But I don't really notice a big barrier to clint diversity is the.

306
00:34:00.060 --> 00:34:13.440
Matt Nelson: sequencers yeah and the fact that they're pretty impossible to run as like a normal user just because the machine requirements are like pretty insane but yeah, so this is this is kind of hijacking the discussion, but.

307
00:34:15.000 --> 00:34:25.080
Matt Nelson: Definitely, something that I want to engage after the merge, maybe Q4 is a good time to start discovery on this and see what that looks like but it's super it's pretty low priority frankly right now.

308
00:34:33.960 --> 00:34:35.220
Matt Nelson: think we can move on grace.

309
00:34:37.470 --> 00:34:40.140
Grace Hartley: good to know if it's coming down the pipe but yeah that's.

310
00:34:41.610 --> 00:34:41.970
Matt Nelson: cool.

311
00:34:43.410 --> 00:34:47.880
Grace Hartley: open forum looks like these are old Francesca can we are moving from the.

312
00:34:50.220 --> 00:34:52.590
Grace Hartley: be open forum what what else for the group I.

313
00:34:54.660 --> 00:34:55.440
Justin Florentine: Did we put the.

314
00:34:56.730 --> 00:34:58.680
Justin Florentine: The chitchat meetup on the calendar.

315
00:35:02.910 --> 00:35:06.390
Justin Florentine: Or we were just going to do that ad hoc and the discord voice channel.

316
00:35:07.980 --> 00:35:09.210
Danno Ferrin: let's put it on the calendar.

317
00:35:11.400 --> 00:35:12.030
Danno Ferrin: Thanks.

318
00:35:16.290 --> 00:35:19.170
Justin Florentine: same same time off week right is that was the plan right.

319
00:35:21.540 --> 00:35:22.110
Danno Ferrin: I think so.

320
00:35:25.980 --> 00:35:28.110
Grace Hartley: tonight to own that Francesco are you.

321
00:35:29.670 --> 00:35:30.330
Francesco Andreoli: Sure sure sure.

322
00:35:31.290 --> 00:35:35.190
Grace Hartley: Thank you yeah we can add it to like that road your calendar than the basic group that'd be great.

323
00:35:36.210 --> 00:35:36.690
Justin Florentine: awesome.

324
00:35:36.750 --> 00:35:37.500
Thank you.

325
00:35:42.060 --> 00:35:42.810
Grace Hartley: Anything else.

326
00:35:46.950 --> 00:35:49.860
Diego López León: hi grace, I think you can remove the deprecating look for.

327
00:35:49.980 --> 00:35:53.400
Diego López León: A 2.0 yeah.

328
00:35:54.540 --> 00:35:55.710
Grace Hartley: yeah just.

329
00:35:56.220 --> 00:35:58.350
Grace Hartley: yeah just realize that Thank you appreciate it.

330
00:36:05.940 --> 00:36:10.710
Grace Hartley: Two participants who are they I don't know who was first in your House.

331
00:36:15.750 --> 00:36:19.920
Nicolas Massart: Thanks i'm just one small thing.

332
00:36:20.310 --> 00:36:21.600
Nicolas Massart: I discussed with.

333
00:36:22.680 --> 00:36:38.850
Nicolas Massart: Some colleagues who are doing some Community support on discord and trying to answer questions mainly Doc riders and the told me that it was a bit hard for them to full on the discord.

334
00:36:39.930 --> 00:36:54.960
Nicolas Massart: With many things happening very fast and so also the difficulty to find the questions and find the answers, if you are new to the discord or anything like that, and we were wondering if.

335
00:36:56.070 --> 00:37:03.000
Nicolas Massart: Like some of the projects we have we could have the github discussion set up.

336
00:37:04.020 --> 00:37:17.310
Nicolas Massart: I don't know if we already discussed that I don't know if there's any reason why we don't have it, I just wanted to to raise this question, and because the discussion in this in github really helps categorizing the.

337
00:37:18.390 --> 00:37:39.480
Nicolas Massart: Questions and see which one is answered or not, and it may help users, not to ask the same question again and again, so that relieve the discord to be just chatting and not really a knowledge base, which is it's not and it's hard to to handle this way, so I wanted to have your opinion.

338
00:37:46.110 --> 00:37:50.070
Gary Schulte: We we had discussions enable that one point rate that we did we disable this.

339
00:37:51.480 --> 00:37:58.890
Nicolas Massart: that's that's part of the question I don't remember the story of this and I just wonder if there was some very.

340
00:38:00.480 --> 00:38:02.400
Nicolas Massart: Hard drawbacks or something about.

341
00:38:08.130 --> 00:38:11.250
Nicolas Massart: That just for an example, we have it on Google chrome.

342
00:38:12.840 --> 00:38:19.380
Nicolas Massart: And it seems to work well, so I just wondered if that's an option or not.

343
00:38:24.780 --> 00:38:32.970
Justin Florentine: Definitely appreciate the problem I have run into this a lot, where I am forced to use discord as a knowledge base, which is terrible so.

344
00:38:34.950 --> 00:38:39.030
Justin Florentine: I agree it's a problem I don't know that I have a solution that I want to propose.

345
00:38:43.470 --> 00:38:44.400
Grace Hartley: It good you have any.

346
00:38:46.260 --> 00:38:48.090
Grace Hartley: documentation or.

347
00:38:49.530 --> 00:38:52.500
Grace Hartley: Maybe a proposal that people can react to to kind of say.

348
00:38:54.390 --> 00:38:59.820
Grace Hartley: Yes, no maybe too, because that yeah I think likely, the group agrees with the challenge but.

349
00:39:00.180 --> 00:39:01.080
It might be helpful yeah.

350
00:39:02.160 --> 00:39:06.630
Nicolas Massart: No, no, I don't I could do that, so we can list.

351
00:39:07.500 --> 00:39:08.370
Nicolas Massart: Things if people.

352
00:39:08.400 --> 00:39:17.760
Nicolas Massart: already have experience with this and see some major blockers or something so i'm just starting the discussion here.

353
00:39:19.080 --> 00:39:20.940
Francesco Andreoli: Maybe quick question, people are maybe.

354
00:39:21.030 --> 00:39:36.420
Francesco Andreoli: We can add in the description of discord like you know before discussing any issue would be great if you're creating a github issue, so that you can discuss directly in the link something like that might be helpful for people or and we can redirect the.

355
00:39:36.480 --> 00:39:41.670
Nicolas Massart: level that may issue, the issue with issues is that once it's created it's.

356
00:39:42.870 --> 00:39:56.340
Nicolas Massart: A landing on the developers plate and it's really I think we should discuss before doing a github issue and that discussion is something separate from the issues because.

357
00:39:57.630 --> 00:39:59.790
Nicolas Massart: I tend to think that the issues.

358
00:40:00.840 --> 00:40:05.040
Nicolas Massart: implies some necessary action from developers and community.

359
00:40:06.300 --> 00:40:11.640
Nicolas Massart: So here is maybe before it may be just about the US age and.

360
00:40:13.500 --> 00:40:30.840
Nicolas Massart: Nothing not really an issue, it may just be a question or something and and a question that can be asked multiple times and on this goddess justin said it's very hard to be I don't I think people don't even try to find a similar question on this call, they just ask it again.

361
00:40:34.380 --> 00:40:35.730
Gary Schulte: i'd be inclined to.

362
00:40:36.030 --> 00:40:39.120
Gary Schulte: enable it and just kind of trial it and if it works.

363
00:40:41.040 --> 00:40:43.740
Gary Schulte: You know work it into our processes and documentation, then.

364
00:40:45.180 --> 00:40:47.010
Gary Schulte: it's kind of one of those let try and see if we like it.

365
00:40:47.820 --> 00:41:05.220
Nicolas Massart: But the thing is that if we activate that then we have to make sure everyone, or at least most people on the discord just direct to this, so I don't know how we can do that easily make sure that people say hey go on the discussion issue of this question and.

366
00:41:06.570 --> 00:41:08.490
Nicolas Massart: Without being too rude or whatever.

367
00:41:09.840 --> 00:41:24.060
Matt Nelson: We can probably make some kind of discord bots that do something like that, without too much trouble if we determine a process or if they like reference that github link it just is like go talk about it here don't talk about it in the discord.

368
00:41:25.980 --> 00:41:33.120
Matt Nelson: I don't know it's it's tough with random questions like that to get people to actually write things down or even just copy and paste.

369
00:41:36.000 --> 00:41:38.160
Nicolas Massart: So maybe we can try, by.

370
00:41:39.630 --> 00:41:43.260
Nicolas Massart: Doing that manually first if it has some impact and.

371
00:41:44.700 --> 00:41:48.930
Nicolas Massart: Then, if we, we are sure it makes sense we automate that.

372
00:41:51.180 --> 00:41:56.820
Matt Nelson: yeah I think this could also tie into in general, the fact that the get is a little bit unwieldy right now.

373
00:41:58.650 --> 00:42:04.080
Matt Nelson: Because it, you know it's hard for us to find issues, let alone end users who don't know them.

374
00:42:04.110 --> 00:42:06.900
Nicolas Massart: yeah but the thing is that it would not be into the.

375
00:42:06.960 --> 00:42:08.700
Nicolas Massart: Issues likely would be.

376
00:42:10.500 --> 00:42:11.280
Nicolas Massart: Another section.

377
00:42:11.940 --> 00:42:13.590
Matt Nelson: All right, I yeah i'm.

378
00:42:13.950 --> 00:42:16.080
Nicolas Massart: cool is also not to pollute the shoes.

379
00:42:16.110 --> 00:42:19.380
Nicolas Massart: Because, as you said, there's already enough.

380
00:42:22.920 --> 00:42:31.770
Nicolas Massart: I tried, I tried to to write something of a sort of proposal and push that to the Community, I think that that's the way.

381
00:42:37.140 --> 00:42:39.570
Nicolas Massart: Some sort of action plan or something like that.

382
00:42:41.340 --> 00:42:43.170
Justin Florentine: that's what makes me feel like maybe we're not getting the.

383
00:42:43.170 --> 00:42:45.150
Justin Florentine: Most mileage out of our listserv either.

384
00:42:46.500 --> 00:42:48.720
Justin Florentine: I feel like the the mailing list might.

385
00:42:49.800 --> 00:42:57.120
Justin Florentine: might be an easily searchable type of thing that people could go to see questions that have been asked, or discussions that have already had and.

386
00:42:58.350 --> 00:43:01.860
Justin Florentine: an engineer they don't do it because we have a fairly low traffic listener right.

387
00:43:04.290 --> 00:43:05.640
Nicolas Massart: yeah plus maybe.

388
00:43:06.720 --> 00:43:11.190
Nicolas Massart: Everything that's on email now is considered all technology or something either.

389
00:43:11.460 --> 00:43:12.960
Gary Schulte: yeah agreed.

390
00:43:13.530 --> 00:43:15.570
Gary Schulte: So I got a question and NICO for.

391
00:43:16.230 --> 00:43:27.750
Gary Schulte: Your proposal to put a proposal and put it to the Community are we are we asking for permission, are we looking for interest or what is it that we're expecting as the outcome of the proposal, but.

392
00:43:27.900 --> 00:43:48.330
Nicolas Massart: I don't think the mission is required, I would more I would expect some feedback and or some experience I don't have much experience in running discussion on github so if there's pitfalls or obvious things we should make sure we we don't new.

393
00:43:49.440 --> 00:43:52.800
Nicolas Massart: that's what i'm expecting from some Community feedback.

394
00:43:54.120 --> 00:43:58.560
Nicolas Massart: And also make sure these process is fine for everyone.

395
00:44:01.590 --> 00:44:05.550
Nicolas Massart: Just a lazy consensus may be enough probably.

396
00:44:07.500 --> 00:44:10.530
Gary Schulte: Would you put that on discord or where would Where would you publish that.

397
00:44:10.620 --> 00:44:15.930
Nicolas Massart: I would probably make the the proposal on the wiki and then advertise it on this.

398
00:44:15.930 --> 00:44:16.560
Nicolas Massart: Call yes.

399
00:44:18.330 --> 00:44:18.600
Gary Schulte: cool.

400
00:44:24.540 --> 00:44:27.480
Grace Hartley: That sounds good to me yeah and I think I like Gary your idea of like.

401
00:44:28.500 --> 00:44:28.920
Grace Hartley: You know.

402
00:44:30.990 --> 00:44:36.750
Grace Hartley: giving it a shot so NICO you know don't don't spend hours on a proposal to see oh.

403
00:44:36.810 --> 00:44:39.510
Nicolas Massart: No, no, no, it would be just a few lines to explain.

404
00:44:39.510 --> 00:44:42.510
Nicolas Massart: yeah reason reasoning for that and.

405
00:44:42.870 --> 00:44:52.680
Nicolas Massart: What are the the expected outcomes and what is the process we plan to to put in place that, for instance, we expect people.

406
00:44:53.190 --> 00:44:58.650
Nicolas Massart: To compute the link to the discussion whenever they have a question on on discord on something.

407
00:44:58.650 --> 00:44:58.950
Nicolas Massart: like that.

408
00:45:00.150 --> 00:45:00.870
Nicolas Massart: But that's it.

409
00:45:03.060 --> 00:45:03.630
Grace Hartley: just wanted to.

410
00:45:03.750 --> 00:45:05.730
Grace Hartley: double check, but you know.

411
00:45:06.930 --> 00:45:08.880
Gary Schulte: You could also possibly sit still so.

412
00:45:09.030 --> 00:45:18.810
Gary Schulte: The the an answer to the question of why it was enabled and then disabled I kind of recall the Anton enabled it at one point, but I don't know when it was disabled.

413
00:45:19.230 --> 00:45:20.430
Gary Schulte: So that might be a good websites.

414
00:45:20.490 --> 00:45:28.290
Nicolas Massart: And one of my question, clear if there's something that made us disability i'd like to know why, before doing the same mistake again.

415
00:45:33.210 --> 00:45:33.480
Nicolas Massart: yep.

416
00:45:33.780 --> 00:45:34.440
Grace Hartley: make sense, you.

417
00:45:34.530 --> 00:45:39.750
Grace Hartley: might have some background that Oh well, thank you, Nicole and good good.

418
00:45:41.310 --> 00:45:44.070
Grace Hartley: glad you raised this because it sounds like it's worth exploring.

419
00:45:45.120 --> 00:45:46.920
Grace Hartley: might give everyone a better experience thanks.

420
00:45:50.340 --> 00:45:52.770
Grace Hartley: Any other topics.

421
00:45:53.400 --> 00:45:56.070
Nicolas Massart: I think Ellen raised her hand at the same time.

422
00:45:56.910 --> 00:45:57.750
Nicolas Massart: Yes, sorry Ellen.

423
00:45:58.830 --> 00:45:59.820
Helen George: Oh i'm.

424
00:46:00.600 --> 00:46:02.190
Helen George: Just an answer my question.

425
00:46:02.400 --> 00:46:03.480
Helen George: In the chat Thank you.

426
00:46:08.160 --> 00:46:08.730
Grace Hartley: Anything else.

427
00:46:15.300 --> 00:46:15.900
Well, good.

428
00:46:17.580 --> 00:46:24.240
Grace Hartley: Great, then we can end here thanks everyone time every time I think this was really productive and we'll see you on discord.

429
00:46:25.590 --> 00:46:27.150
Grace Hartley: will go nice oh.

430
00:46:28.110 --> 00:46:30.180
Grace Hartley: you'll share the notes of the discord to just in case.

431
00:46:31.320 --> 00:46:33.090
Francesco Andreoli: Yes, i'm just a bit in the body just.

432
00:46:33.150 --> 00:46:34.770
Grace Hartley: Thank you very much, all right bye all.

433
00:46:35.430 --> 00:46:36.870
Nicolas Massart: Right bye everyone take care.

434
00:46:37.590 --> 00:46:38.880
Danno Ferrin: bye bye.

435
00:46:39.210 --> 00:46:39.540
Karim T.: All right.

