WEBVTT

1
00:07:19.050 --> 00:07:20.670
Francesco Andreoli: Hey, Jerry! Here, Gary.

2
00:07:20.880 --> 00:07:21.800
Francesco Andreoli: how are you?

3
00:07:23.420 --> 00:07:28.770
Jiri Peinlich: Meetings, greetings, greeting, holiday greetings.

4
00:07:34.140 --> 00:07:37.240
Francesco Andreoli: I think we were before in the call.

5
00:07:37.700 --> 00:07:43.789
Francesco Andreoli: like kind of core that's unpacked and met with also there. So I guess we can wait a couple of minutes.

6
00:07:45.790 --> 00:07:47.840
Francesco Andreoli: I think, was was writing it up.

7
00:07:49.690 --> 00:07:54.100
Jiri Peinlich: Some of the people are a panel call 4, 8, 4, 4.

8
00:07:55.320 --> 00:07:57.369
Francesco Andreoli: Oh, really! When when is this ending

9
00:07:58.020 --> 00:07:59.309
Jiri Peinlich: in half an hour

10
00:07:59.840 --> 00:08:00.920
Francesco Andreoli: for enough an hour.

11
00:08:01.040 --> 00:08:02.140
Francesco Andreoli: do we wanna

12
00:08:02.220 --> 00:08:07.570
Francesco Andreoli: Do you want to push it? I don't see, like we have a fat agenda like today. We can also push it in 30 min.

13
00:08:07.870 --> 00:08:09.819
Jiri Peinlich: Oh, Mr.

14
00:08:10.120 --> 00:08:13.619
Francesco Andreoli: Mr. Justin was supposed to be the call, so maybe it's gone.

15
00:08:13.690 --> 00:08:16.080
Francesco Andreoli: maybe it's a duplicate of Justin.

16
00:08:16.110 --> 00:08:22.370
Justin Florentine: I am here. This ended at the perfect time. So I i'm not too late.

17
00:08:23.620 --> 00:08:25.360
Francesco Andreoli: Nice nice

18
00:08:25.450 --> 00:08:28.279
Francesco Andreoli: we're saying also. Matt was on on another call on now.

19
00:08:30.460 --> 00:08:32.200
Francesco Andreoli: but I guess we can

20
00:08:32.270 --> 00:08:33.950
Francesco Andreoli: get it started.

21
00:08:57.730 --> 00:08:59.230
Diego López León: Nice! How are you.

22
00:09:01.430 --> 00:09:02.369
Gary Schulte: hey? There you go!

23
00:09:03.480 --> 00:09:05.170
Justin Florentine: He was out of here.

24
00:09:07.060 --> 00:09:11.840
Diego López León: A good here is everything is crazy here because of the world, Cap.

25
00:09:13.050 --> 00:09:17.399
Francesco Andreoli: Oh, you're in Argentina.

26
00:09:17.670 --> 00:09:23.150
Diego López León: Yeah.

27
00:09:23.870 --> 00:09:24.510
Diego López León: Hmm.

28
00:09:25.130 --> 00:09:25.980
Diego López León: Thank you.

29
00:09:28.590 --> 00:09:31.979
Justin Florentine: That's awesome. Have fun. Stay safe, but not necessarily in that order.

30
00:09:44.800 --> 00:09:46.920
Francesco Andreoli: Are we still waiting there?

31
00:10:50.010 --> 00:10:52.440
Francesco Andreoli: I guess we can get get it started.

32
00:10:55.810 --> 00:10:58.189
Francesco Andreoli: We still know if fab or

33
00:10:59.010 --> 00:11:00.750
Francesco Andreoli: make far, whether they are coming or

34
00:11:03.090 --> 00:11:04.819
Francesco Andreoli: we can just get it started.

35
00:11:04.910 --> 00:11:08.870
Justin Florentine: Yeah, we can get started. I'll see if we can get them out of band.

36
00:11:11.670 --> 00:11:13.340
Gary Schulte: Yeah, Matt said. To start without him.

37
00:11:14.460 --> 00:11:15.210
Okay.

38
00:11:15.460 --> 00:11:16.440
that's good

39
00:11:17.730 --> 00:11:20.940
Francesco Andreoli: at this

40
00:11:21.320 --> 00:11:25.349
Francesco Andreoli: cool. So welcome everybody to our is a contributor to a call

41
00:11:25.400 --> 00:11:34.239
Francesco Andreoli: the last of the year 20 December. Specifically housekeeping notes is the on to address notice. Anything is being recorded.

42
00:11:35.440 --> 00:11:36.859
Francesco Andreoli: And

43
00:11:37.010 --> 00:11:41.800
Francesco Andreoli: please mute, and unless speaking, and if you have any question with your end

44
00:11:42.210 --> 00:11:43.430
Francesco Andreoli: features.

45
00:11:43.570 --> 00:11:53.799
Francesco Andreoli: so I think we can get it started. I think, like this was a I update on Matt. I don't know if anybody has a anything that to say on this update.

46
00:11:53.890 --> 00:11:54.910
Francesco Andreoli: What's this cost?

47
00:12:00.250 --> 00:12:12.320
Justin Florentine: Well, we are currently in a holding pattern. As far as Ci is concerned. Consensus has contributed some funding, and provided a corporate card. the payment should keep us in credits

48
00:12:12.530 --> 00:12:14.570
Justin Florentine: just through the end of the month.

49
00:12:14.620 --> 00:12:15.749
Justin Florentine: It's going to be tight.

50
00:12:16.080 --> 00:12:30.510
Justin Florentine: and then after that we are unknown. So we bought ourselves a little bit of breathing room, but not a ton. A decision really needs to be made as far as how this is going to proceed. as far as we know, from Hyper Ledger.

51
00:12:30.620 --> 00:12:33.749
Justin Florentine: They are not planning on paying for circle. Ci

52
00:12:34.370 --> 00:12:36.250
Justin Florentine: and

53
00:12:36.280 --> 00:12:38.449
Justin Florentine: we are unclear. As to next steps.

54
00:12:41.380 --> 00:12:46.130
Francesco Andreoli: Is there someone on lead on this, or what are the next steps for? January or

55
00:12:46.760 --> 00:12:51.440
Justin Florentine: so? Conversations have been ongoing between Csi and Hyper Ledger.

56
00:12:52.250 --> 00:13:03.550
Justin Florentine: Matt is well versed, and where those conversations are. I believe Hart is also been on the Hyper Ledger side of that conversation, so he should know where that is. As well.

57
00:13:06.180 --> 00:13:08.029
Justin Florentine: that's that's about all I know.

58
00:13:08.220 --> 00:13:16.230
Gary Schulte: Yeah, Matt said that he would probably be able to join this call just 15 min late, so maybe we could just get a status update from him when he joins.

59
00:13:17.000 --> 00:13:18.720
Francesco Andreoli: Sounds good. Sounds good.

60
00:13:19.430 --> 00:13:23.360
Francesco Andreoli: I would say. Let's move forward, for now, so Vco issues

61
00:13:24.830 --> 00:13:26.480
Francesco Andreoli: I can take it on the

62
00:13:30.970 --> 00:13:32.520
Francesco Andreoli: roll this up, or

63
00:13:33.610 --> 00:13:37.210
Francesco Andreoli: it of action. It's a for and broken down since July.

64
00:13:48.420 --> 00:13:50.660
Gary Schulte: Do we know who added the Dco. Item.

65
00:13:50.800 --> 00:13:52.869
Gary Schulte: I hadn't noticed that it's been broken.

66
00:13:55.550 --> 00:13:57.260
Francesco Andreoli: Good question.

67
00:13:57.650 --> 00:14:00.579
Justin Florentine: I think that was the Australian team.

68
00:14:00.780 --> 00:14:06.780
Justin Florentine: I know that at least Simon and Sally have made reference to it recently.

69
00:14:07.700 --> 00:14:15.930
Justin Florentine: and I believe in the discord somewhere. Simon posted a explanation as to how to fix it.

70
00:14:16.440 --> 00:14:24.870
Justin Florentine: I don't know about the underlying cost, though if Dco is no longer being checked by Circle ci. But instead is being handled by Github actions.

71
00:14:24.890 --> 00:14:27.230
Justin Florentine: and that's not configured correctly.

72
00:14:27.700 --> 00:14:31.819
Justin Florentine: we will need somebody from Hyper Ledger to weigh in on that since.

73
00:14:31.970 --> 00:14:40.180
Justin Florentine: Well, I don't know if that's true. Let me check to see what kind of control we have over the github actions. we might be able to fix that ourselves.

74
00:14:42.470 --> 00:14:45.300
Justin Florentine: I think the problem was it just wasn't running the check

75
00:14:45.600 --> 00:14:51.239
Justin Florentine: on on main. It was running out on pull. Requests opened into main, but not on main itself.

76
00:14:51.470 --> 00:14:54.949
Justin Florentine: That doesn't quite answer the question as to how

77
00:14:55.130 --> 00:15:03.169
Justin Florentine: a commit that wasn't signed off via Dco. Got on main without pull request, so definitely needs to be investigated.

78
00:15:05.680 --> 00:15:07.769
Diego López León: Maybe the the merge commit.

79
00:15:10.120 --> 00:15:10.900
Justin Florentine: Yeah.

80
00:15:11.300 --> 00:15:14.390
Justin Florentine: that would be a common phenomenon. Yeah.

81
00:15:16.250 --> 00:15:20.210
Matt Nelson: Did they have anything to do with circle like totally dying for like a week?

82
00:15:20.790 --> 00:15:21.420
No.

83
00:15:21.870 --> 00:15:22.970
Matt Nelson: no. Okay.

84
00:15:25.940 --> 00:15:38.599
Francesco Andreoli: Okay. Now that you met your back well done with all the call. we're speaking about the Ci. Update that on December we have the credit card details, but I don't know you have more details on the next steps from January on.

85
00:15:39.680 --> 00:15:44.019
Matt Nelson: Yeah, I mean it's a little bit of a hairy situation.

86
00:15:45.810 --> 00:15:53.399
Matt Nelson: for transparency's sake. Essentially, Hyper Ledger has asked consensus to pay for the ci for the time being.

87
00:15:53.440 --> 00:15:55.089
Matt Nelson: consensus has to

88
00:15:55.250 --> 00:16:01.650
Matt Nelson: figure out what that actually looks like before we commit what is likely to be 10 to $15,000

89
00:16:01.710 --> 00:16:03.849
Matt Nelson: until withdrawals are enabled.

90
00:16:04.100 --> 00:16:07.820
Matt Nelson: So we're still in discussions with Hyper ledger foundation.

91
00:16:12.010 --> 00:16:25.350
Matt Nelson: So I I don't really have any more to updates to provide. My My anticipation is that we won't run out of credits before everyone leaves kind of before the end of the year. We will likely try to get a resolution in place before everyone returns, if we can

92
00:16:25.540 --> 00:16:27.790
Matt Nelson: at the beginning of January.

93
00:16:28.260 --> 00:16:31.140
Matt Nelson: But I don't know it's

94
00:16:32.230 --> 00:16:40.360
Matt Nelson: a little tough to say, because I don't know what consensus finance is. I don't know what consensus is. Finance Department will say, and I don't know how Hyper Ledger

95
00:16:40.540 --> 00:16:49.440
Matt Nelson: foundation will respond. But the good news of the situation is that after withdrawals are enabled, we have a plan in place to go straight to using the validator funds

96
00:16:56.970 --> 00:16:58.480
Matt Nelson: to pay for stuff.

97
00:16:58.780 --> 00:17:00.440
Matt Nelson: so

98
00:17:00.780 --> 00:17:09.160
Matt Nelson: i'm working with I'm: i'm trying to basically force them to start setting that up now, because I have a feeling that as a nonprofit it'll take them a long time to figure out the accounting.

99
00:17:09.420 --> 00:17:15.060
Matt Nelson: So we're hoping that by withdrawal once withdrawals are enabled, we immediately will have a solution.

100
00:17:16.970 --> 00:17:19.400
Matt Nelson: We might want to look into ways to reduce

101
00:17:19.450 --> 00:17:30.459
Matt Nelson: ci costs and usage in the short term, but at the same time it's like that's dev effort. So I don't really know like it's a hard thing to justify spending time on when we have other pressing priorities.

102
00:17:30.470 --> 00:17:43.120
Matt Nelson: But the update is, in short, that we're being asked to pay consensus has to kind of figure out what that means for us, and whether we want to pay all of it. Or if we kind of try to find a way to maybe use our own invalidator funds.

103
00:17:44.020 --> 00:17:46.590
Matt Nelson: Tbd: just kind of a

104
00:17:46.850 --> 00:17:53.200
Matt Nelson: mess of a situation, and and we're working to figure it out as fast as possible. But Hyper Ledger has kind of punted it to

105
00:17:53.660 --> 00:17:55.969
Matt Nelson: consensus. So we're

106
00:17:56.410 --> 00:17:58.950
Matt Nelson: i'm going to try to sort it out and see

107
00:18:00.610 --> 00:18:03.310
Matt Nelson: but that's that's kind of it. Unfortunately for now

108
00:18:06.220 --> 00:18:07.870
Francesco Andreoli: cool any question on this

109
00:18:08.000 --> 00:18:08.650
or

110
00:18:09.220 --> 00:18:18.789
Gary Schulte: I have a quick question if we need. If we get into a spot where we don't have ci credits, and we have something like a release coming up. Do we have a mitigation plan that we can

111
00:18:18.920 --> 00:18:22.309
Gary Schulte: like quickly add funds? Or is it just that we're

112
00:18:22.350 --> 00:18:24.010
Gary Schulte: gonna have to be reactive about that?

113
00:18:24.270 --> 00:18:28.089
Matt Nelson: I have a meeting to discuss later with, like the

114
00:18:28.870 --> 00:18:30.310
Matt Nelson: some internal people.

115
00:18:33.410 --> 00:18:47.950
Matt Nelson: i'm going to try to get that in place. It's probably going to be similar last time, or we just kind of load up the Ci like on an emergency basis. It's a super crappy situation, and, like I completely am aware that this is hard for the developers and the contributors.

116
00:18:48.000 --> 00:18:51.229
Matt Nelson: and i'm fully aware that it's just like not a great situation.

117
00:18:54.090 --> 00:19:02.470
Matt Nelson: But again, like I I have to see what I have to see what I can do with our internal controls, because I I don't know the extent of what we're able to provide, and

118
00:19:04.230 --> 00:19:13.850
Matt Nelson: we'll just have to see. I I have a feeling that we won't like. Let this development process just kind of die, because that just doesn't make any sense. and we have a lot of hard work coming up with

119
00:19:14.000 --> 00:19:17.679
Matt Nelson: the January stuff and the in the hard forks. So

120
00:19:18.110 --> 00:19:20.919
Matt Nelson: i'm presuming we'll have it solved quickly.

121
00:19:22.340 --> 00:19:27.720
Matt Nelson: But yeah, as to that, Gary, i'll have to follow up with you separately. I i'm talking to a bunch of people later today.

122
00:19:27.760 --> 00:19:31.369
Matt Nelson: in response to emails we received from Hyper Ledger today. So

123
00:19:31.500 --> 00:19:32.780
Matt Nelson: we will

124
00:19:33.060 --> 00:19:44.109
Matt Nelson: like on a publicly recorded call, like, I don't know how much else I need. I can discuss like, need to discuss, cause I don't have any answers right now. I'll have mortgage. I'll share more as I get updates in the basic contributors channel.

125
00:19:47.180 --> 00:19:51.230
Matt Nelson: but that's about it, and we still have a little bit of credits for now.

126
00:19:51.960 --> 00:19:55.850
Matt Nelson: i'm hoping it lasts us through the end of the week, so we can prep the release.

127
00:19:55.910 --> 00:19:57.459
Matt Nelson: and then just release it.

128
00:19:57.750 --> 00:20:02.420
Matt Nelson: as opposed to having to need to do a bunch of ci shenanigans. But I will

129
00:20:03.190 --> 00:20:05.610
Matt Nelson: try to get a mitigation plan in place.

130
00:20:07.140 --> 00:20:08.200
Gary Schulte: Cool thanks.

131
00:20:09.440 --> 00:20:16.349
Francesco Andreoli: That's good. so we mentioned about Theco issues where release updates. There is no update right

132
00:20:16.470 --> 00:20:17.260
Francesco Andreoli: on that.

133
00:20:18.270 --> 00:20:21.680
Matt Nelson: Gary. You want to give a breakdown of what we're thinking for the next Wednesday.

134
00:20:21.810 --> 00:20:37.700
Gary Schulte: Yeah. So we're still planning to work on the the the new schedule. it's still, I guess, proposed that we're gonna cut a release several days in advance of the actual release. So we will we're planning to cut artifacts for 23

135
00:20:38.310 --> 00:20:49.989
Gary Schulte: that one dot one dot 1 0 beta on Friday, as well as a 2214 on Friday. So those artifacts will burn in over the weekend will make sure that the

136
00:20:50.270 --> 00:20:53.040
Gary Schulte: their release quality by the

137
00:20:53.200 --> 00:20:58.070
Gary Schulte: in the next Wednesday, which is the 20 eighth, which is what's actually currently scheduled for the release.

138
00:20:58.240 --> 00:21:02.149
Gary Schulte: And I think most people will be on vacation at that time. But if we

139
00:21:02.440 --> 00:21:10.879
Gary Schulte: we have everything cut and ready to go, it should be pretty lightweight to do the release on the 20 eighth, assuming that there is No, no, nothing discovered with the canary nodes of the burning.

140
00:21:11.070 --> 00:21:13.420
Gary Schulte: So that's that's the current plan is to do both

141
00:21:13.450 --> 00:21:18.250
Gary Schulte: 23, 1 0 beta, and 2214 on

142
00:21:18.330 --> 00:21:20.430
Gary Schulte: release artifacts on Friday.

143
00:21:27.610 --> 00:21:28.550
Francesco Andreoli: That's good.

144
00:21:30.000 --> 00:21:31.330
Francesco Andreoli: Any question on that.

145
00:21:32.010 --> 00:21:33.300
Francesco Andreoli: Oh, see there!

146
00:21:36.280 --> 00:21:38.309
Matt Nelson: Do we have any? Also?

147
00:21:38.910 --> 00:21:45.480
Matt Nelson: Input on the release process from Non csi folks, Diego, do you? Have you had a chance to review any of those proposals

148
00:21:45.740 --> 00:21:46.900
Matt Nelson: that we've put up?

149
00:21:48.250 --> 00:21:52.920
Diego López León: No, no, no, not really enough to have an opinion yet.

150
00:21:53.310 --> 00:21:54.060
Matt Nelson: Okay.

151
00:21:54.510 --> 00:22:03.180
Matt Nelson: that's no problem. I don't think we'll need to update the release, like I don't think we'll need to agree on any proposal this year, anyway. but maybe in January just

152
00:22:03.270 --> 00:22:06.670
Matt Nelson: quick Read would be nice. Just so that we can. At least

153
00:22:06.760 --> 00:22:14.050
Matt Nelson: I know there's like disagreement either way, among different folks. But your comments would be helpful, especially since you're

154
00:22:14.510 --> 00:22:17.789
Matt Nelson: neither Csi nor Dan. So it would be great to have your input.

155
00:22:17.860 --> 00:22:19.460
Diego López León: Okay? Okay.

156
00:22:19.840 --> 00:22:21.720
Gary Schulte: Yeah, I I think

157
00:22:22.080 --> 00:22:28.480
Gary Schulte: my understanding is that we there's not a lot of contention right now with what the current

158
00:22:28.650 --> 00:22:30.810
Gary Schulte: you know kind of preview

159
00:22:30.880 --> 00:22:33.890
Gary Schulte: cut off and burn in release processes

160
00:22:34.060 --> 00:22:40.559
Gary Schulte: feel free to correct me if i'm wrong. But I think that we have some general consensus that that's an acceptable release process so far.

161
00:22:41.140 --> 00:22:51.889
Matt Nelson: Yeah. So to recap we basic to recap, I think that the burn in like the Friday caught off process stuff. There's 2 kind of documents circulating. Essentially, we're

162
00:22:52.440 --> 00:23:11.089
Matt Nelson: to. I don't know if you've read any of it. But to summarize the the first one is that we are basically choosing specific commits to cut as the release the Friday prior to Wednesday releases, so that we can have sufficient time to test it and sync nodes and do whatever we need to do. so I think that basically the the process we outlined is that

163
00:23:11.100 --> 00:23:13.500
Matt Nelson: all the contributors that need to have stuff in

164
00:23:13.790 --> 00:23:20.679
Matt Nelson: before that Friday cut off just like ping in the Channel, and the Release Coordinator will pull it all in and use the right

165
00:23:20.750 --> 00:23:37.980
Matt Nelson: You know we'll use the right point in time snapshot to cut the release, so essentially it pulls the window up a few days, so is if you have code that you need to get into the release. just make sure the contributors know before the weekend of the release so that the release coordinator can pull in the right stuff.

166
00:23:40.220 --> 00:23:43.149
Matt Nelson: Yeah, that's the only change. And then we have a process

167
00:23:43.540 --> 00:23:49.000
Matt Nelson: to, you know, kind of evaluate the burn in and see if it needs to delay the release.

168
00:23:49.200 --> 00:24:05.959
Matt Nelson: but that's kind of the second part. The other proposal that's flying around is the process to scuttle or delay a release which is one the one that requires more sufficient input and and time to bake. But I don't think that. Yeah, so that there's those kind of the 2 documents, and they're They're on the Wiki: but

169
00:24:06.210 --> 00:24:11.759
Matt Nelson: but yeah, to summarize, that's that's what we're looking at, as far as changes. I think the first change around Vernon has been fully

170
00:24:12.190 --> 00:24:18.370
Matt Nelson: vetted, and people don't seem to have an issue, but that's just, I guess, a reminder to either provide input or provide your commits

171
00:24:18.480 --> 00:24:25.629
Matt Nelson: by Friday, so that we can not not necessarily this Friday, but the Friday before release in general, so that we can get everything and lined up

172
00:24:26.140 --> 00:24:36.730
Gary Schulte: Actually, one more thing for this particular release. The tentatively the 22 ten-four is a cherry pick release. So if you have something that you want to get in to the 22.10 line

173
00:24:36.760 --> 00:24:51.679
Gary Schulte: i'll i'll re- push this into discord so that we can have that discussion there. But currently I think there's only one Pr. That was discussed to have in the cherry pick. So after something you want to get in a 2210 line add that to the basic release channel

174
00:24:51.700 --> 00:24:57.069
Gary Schulte: on discord, and the 23, 1 0 beta will be coming directly from Main

175
00:25:03.820 --> 00:25:04.650
Francesco Andreoli: cool.

176
00:25:05.170 --> 00:25:09.179
Francesco Andreoli: So it's good. so let's move to the working updates.

177
00:25:09.460 --> 00:25:12.280
Francesco Andreoli: So Shanghai planning.

178
00:25:13.250 --> 00:25:17.220
Francesco Andreoli: I guess, Matt, you put it in right, for the withdraw is there, by the way,

179
00:25:17.310 --> 00:25:20.699
Francesco Andreoli: timings or the When do we go with the enabled?

180
00:25:20.780 --> 00:25:27.459
Matt Nelson: Yeah. So I can let Yeri talk about withdrawals, and then maybe Diego or Justin can give us an update on Ef: but

181
00:25:28.290 --> 00:25:35.130
Matt Nelson: yeah, I mean, the withdrawal is still targeted for that same kind of like Q. 2 timeframe. So probably around March.

182
00:25:37.440 --> 00:25:45.409
Matt Nelson: That's basically it, right? It. It really depends on how the interoperability testing goes. but maybe eerie has another update for everyone else.

183
00:25:47.610 --> 00:25:51.530
Jiri Peinlich: Yes, so for withdrawals.

184
00:25:52.240 --> 00:25:55.569
Jiri Peinlich: there is a branch that Mr. Simon, with Mr. J. Some

185
00:25:55.750 --> 00:25:59.090
Jiri Peinlich: built that we are now running on

186
00:25:59.160 --> 00:26:00.310
Jiri Peinlich: on the.

187
00:26:01.540 --> 00:26:03.000
Jiri Peinlich: That's not Flora

188
00:26:03.070 --> 00:26:04.420
Jiri Peinlich: for

189
00:26:04.500 --> 00:26:14.589
Jiri Peinlich: withdrawals. So this is, I think, already they are preparing for it to already lunch. So like a public test, not for withdrawal that public will be able to join.

190
00:26:14.640 --> 00:26:27.759
Jiri Peinlich: So we provided them with the build that the vessel has a system, if support for with rules. They are like, I think, 2 main problems that were identified Did I remember which one of them was

191
00:26:30.630 --> 00:26:41.959
Jiri Peinlich: when we started thinking the backwards sync didn't properly sing with the rest of the network. So it's one thing we need to look at, and second thing with some strange outputs

192
00:26:42.400 --> 00:26:45.419
Jiri Peinlich: related to

193
00:26:45.570 --> 00:26:49.409
Jiri Peinlich: it also didn't, but the neither of those eventually

194
00:26:49.480 --> 00:26:57.269
Jiri Peinlich: block tasks from completely syncing in the end. So the back for a single one was a resolved by a removing data by C you from scratch

195
00:26:57.480 --> 00:27:01.669
Jiri Peinlich: and everything sync properly, and the other

196
00:27:01.910 --> 00:27:04.229
Jiri Peinlich: messaging just to be

197
00:27:07.120 --> 00:27:11.630
Jiri Peinlich: cosmetic issue. But like we didn't look into that yet, I think.

198
00:27:11.730 --> 00:27:20.490
Jiri Peinlich: Mr. Jason and Mr. Simon are working hard to match the branch eventually before the dependencies into main.

199
00:27:20.850 --> 00:27:25.230
Jiri Peinlich: And yeah, if there is a problem with the testing from the Ef.

200
00:27:25.950 --> 00:27:35.599
Jiri Peinlich: because Mr. Barnabas is working on it during my time zone, so i'm available in case there will be something to discuss

201
00:27:35.820 --> 00:27:38.049
Jiri Peinlich: That's basically the withdrawal status right now.

202
00:27:38.120 --> 00:27:43.540
Jiri Peinlich: So I think, is it from overall? We are ready for this through us, more or less.

203
00:27:44.510 --> 00:27:45.100
Jiri Peinlich: Yeah.

204
00:27:45.260 --> 00:27:49.630
Jiri Peinlich: Sorry to me. I don't know if there are any questions or something.

205
00:27:56.830 --> 00:28:01.639
Jiri Peinlich: Oh, oh, nobody's speaking something else.

206
00:28:01.720 --> 00:28:03.730
Jiri Peinlich: Oh, this is good.

207
00:28:04.520 --> 00:28:13.549
Justin Florentine: All I've done for you is review other people's work, so I mean it's the Diego show as far as I know you've been killing it, Buddy. You got anything you want to add for you.

208
00:28:15.270 --> 00:28:20.790
Diego López León: yeah, Well, for us, I think we are in pretty good shape.

209
00:28:21.150 --> 00:28:22.350
Diego López León: right now.

210
00:28:22.840 --> 00:28:28.250
Diego López León: I just review I think you, too, just in we just review

211
00:28:28.530 --> 00:28:29.440
Diego López León: or

212
00:28:29.480 --> 00:28:33.049
Diego López León: left, right f jump F.

213
00:28:33.690 --> 00:28:45.160
Diego López León: So I think it's being marked today, and the only one is still pending is 54, 50. It's all the stabilization. So we are negotiating there.

214
00:28:53.330 --> 00:28:58.479
Diego López León: I i'm not quite sure if there will be any specific test, not for for ef yet

215
00:28:58.510 --> 00:29:01.199
Diego López León: I don't know if the withdrawal of one will include

216
00:29:01.230 --> 00:29:02.990
Diego López León: any of this work.

217
00:29:03.270 --> 00:29:09.880
Jiri Peinlich: I think, on the last or court. That's the discussion when towards the direction that

218
00:29:10.200 --> 00:29:10.940
Jiri Peinlich: Hmm

219
00:29:11.880 --> 00:29:31.740
Jiri Peinlich: We still a lot of people want us to be part of the Shanghai, but it's not yet completely decided. It's gonna happen. And at the first week of January, all the clients will confirm that they are capable of merging us into their that they have done basically with the development, the

220
00:29:31.750 --> 00:29:40.459
Jiri Peinlich: overall. This thing can start, and then they will decide. And if it goes to Shanghai it'll be decided only in January. That's my understanding for me. All contacts

221
00:29:42.750 --> 00:29:45.199
Diego López León: yeah makes sense. They probably don't want to.

222
00:29:45.680 --> 00:29:52.029
Diego López León: it's been up a another test that we are not sure if it's going to be part of it.

223
00:29:55.470 --> 00:29:59.140
Jiri Peinlich: I think there was only one person who was strongly against including this.

224
00:29:59.480 --> 00:30:05.250
Jiri Peinlich: Oh, I think Downlook, or what is his name? I don't know exactly what is his name.

225
00:30:05.440 --> 00:30:14.999
Jiri Peinlich: but that was the only person

226
00:30:16.370 --> 00:30:19.840
Jiri Peinlich: it it seemed like. Everybody else was strongly for including it as well.

227
00:30:21.080 --> 00:30:24.899
Jiri Peinlich: Also for Shanghai. If anybody is listening to this, we also have a new

228
00:30:24.980 --> 00:30:27.720
Jiri Peinlich: discord channel

229
00:30:27.810 --> 00:30:29.650
Jiri Peinlich: for Shanghai. And

230
00:30:29.950 --> 00:30:31.140
Jiri Peinlich: yeah.

231
00:30:31.300 --> 00:30:37.370
Jiri Peinlich: so that we can discuss this things in more detail, anyways.

232
00:30:41.840 --> 00:30:45.390
Jiri Peinlich: yeah, I i'm sorry. I always say too much.

233
00:30:47.680 --> 00:30:52.200
Gary Schulte: That's a a discord. It's on the hyper ledger discord in one of the

234
00:30:52.260 --> 00:30:58.990
Gary Schulte: on the conversation threads. What was the there's a new conversation threading model, right?

235
00:31:02.190 --> 00:31:12.030
Jiri Peinlich: Yeah. We created the one channel for each of the upcoming forks, and I think it sounds nice, because also with the idea, Mr. Ramad, we've always having some

236
00:31:13.720 --> 00:31:16.810
Jiri Peinlich: last fork in in our go.

237
00:31:16.860 --> 00:31:20.629
Jiri Peinlich: Now, you guys, that we can discuss all the

238
00:31:25.900 --> 00:31:30.780
Jiri Peinlich: I'm just trying to be active on this course. Sorry guys. Sorry guys go.

239
00:31:37.490 --> 00:31:38.889
Matt Nelson: I think we can

240
00:31:38.950 --> 00:31:42.129
Matt Nelson: jump to this kind of like roadmap stuff

241
00:31:42.930 --> 00:31:44.739
Matt Nelson: for you know

242
00:31:44.760 --> 00:31:54.149
Matt Nelson: Q. One don't click that link. I don't think it leads to anything useful for you one. I like it's been kind of

243
00:31:54.370 --> 00:32:02.070
Matt Nelson: a lot of this work like around actual road. Mapping has been on the back burner in favor of just like shoring up the client from proof of sake and from the merge.

244
00:32:02.420 --> 00:32:06.410
Matt Nelson: but we will be kind of hitting the rock ground running around a lot of like

245
00:32:06.620 --> 00:32:11.340
Matt Nelson: planning and strategy stuff in quarter one, so i'll have more to share.

246
00:32:11.420 --> 00:32:15.769
Matt Nelson: then, for feedback, and see if anyone has agreement or disagreement.

247
00:32:15.820 --> 00:32:21.360
Matt Nelson: but you know, I think the key focus is going to be around fixing some of the

248
00:32:21.470 --> 00:32:22.930
Matt Nelson: kind of outstanding

249
00:32:23.110 --> 00:32:35.479
Matt Nelson: challenges in the code base with a pain and complexity around different use cases. So whether that means kind of like small medium or large flavor of kind, of a modular code, base or something different, it.

250
00:32:35.580 --> 00:32:42.639
Matt Nelson: You know we we have to kind of discuss, but that's I think, what our key focus will be alongside prioritizing hard forks in the short term.

251
00:32:43.220 --> 00:32:48.640
Matt Nelson: and just kind of that resolution of tech at around the the code base that I think will be

252
00:32:49.090 --> 00:32:52.420
Matt Nelson: awesome for a bunch of people. But we Haven't kicked that off in earnest, yet

253
00:32:52.570 --> 00:32:56.119
Matt Nelson: in terms of planning, so nothing too much to share there.

254
00:32:56.230 --> 00:33:00.049
Matt Nelson: but there's a lot of other discussion around the roadmap

255
00:33:00.450 --> 00:33:06.900
Matt Nelson: as far as like privacy, features, and things that are going on. so just like feel free to ping me if you if there are questions

256
00:33:08.450 --> 00:33:14.040
Matt Nelson: around kind of what anyone is thinking. I can only really speak for consensus, but at the same time.

257
00:33:14.230 --> 00:33:15.830
Matt Nelson: you know

258
00:33:16.310 --> 00:33:30.399
Matt Nelson: this like the that's kind of the where the direction we're moving towards is trying to make things easier around supporting the multiple use cases as opposed to more difficult, so it will take some lift to get there, and we we definitely want input from people maintaining different use cases.

259
00:33:31.100 --> 00:33:44.749
Matt Nelson: what that actually means. And if you have, you know design and implementation details as we have more of the process kind of filtered and and actually created around scoping, we'll definitely be seeking input on proposals in the hyper ledger

260
00:33:45.030 --> 00:33:46.710
Matt Nelson: channels. So

261
00:33:47.190 --> 00:33:51.390
Matt Nelson: that's kind of the roadmap for now, Still focusing on performance and stability for a little while

262
00:33:53.790 --> 00:33:57.829
Francesco Andreoli: how people will give feedback, Matt. like the proposal symbols.

263
00:34:02.060 --> 00:34:05.959
Matt Nelson: Well, I don't think we need to review the metrics because

264
00:34:05.980 --> 00:34:09.330
Matt Nelson: it's a holiday almost doesn't it anymore.

265
00:34:09.590 --> 00:34:11.420
Matt Nelson: topics that they want to discuss.

266
00:34:19.630 --> 00:34:20.900
Gary Schulte: I'm happy holidays.

267
00:34:21.540 --> 00:34:23.040
Francesco Andreoli: Okay, All the days guys

268
00:34:23.300 --> 00:34:26.519
Francesco Andreoli: next year.

269
00:34:32.639 --> 00:34:34.340
Matt Nelson: Cool anything else.

270
00:34:34.670 --> 00:34:35.860
Matt Nelson: No more

271
00:34:36.239 --> 00:34:38.269
Matt Nelson: alright. Cool. Thanks. Everyone.

272
00:34:38.440 --> 00:34:42.619
Diego López León: Thanks. Everybody.

273
00:34:42.730 --> 00:34:44.109
Francesco Andreoli: Nice to see you.

