00:07:22	Grace Hartley:	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/BESU/Mainnet+activity+log+H1+2023
00:23:44	Matt Nelson:	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/events/Operate+and+Extend+Hyperledger+Besu+Workshop
00:34:08	Helen George:	i assumed these were semantic versionings
00:40:26	Helen George:	When is it??
00:41:03	Justin Florentine:	itâ€™ll be this time/day next week, and then alternating with this meeting
00:41:19	Helen George:	Ah! got it thanks
00:48:12	Grace Hartley:	yeah + listserv is another thing for us to track
00:51:23	Francesco Andreoli:	Thanks!
