WEBVTT

1
00:01:24.480 --> 00:01:25.230
Justin Florentine: Francesco.

2
00:01:32.790 --> 00:01:33.060
Francesco Andreoli: Good.

3
00:01:34.920 --> 00:01:35.760
Justin Florentine: yeah.

4
00:01:40.260 --> 00:01:42.660
Francesco Andreoli: Safety return from from from.

5
00:01:43.170 --> 00:01:43.560
France.

6
00:01:48.240 --> 00:01:48.900
Justin Florentine: yeah.

7
00:01:52.380 --> 00:01:53.430
Justin Florentine: palantir Nice.

8
00:01:55.860 --> 00:01:56.550
Justin Florentine: she's connected.

9
00:02:07.980 --> 00:02:09.390
Francesco Andreoli: If braces she's joining.

10
00:02:11.640 --> 00:02:14.160
Justin Florentine: race that's a good question, I do not know.

11
00:02:16.620 --> 00:02:20.580
Gary Schulte: She she asked me this morning about some of the the validator projections.

12
00:02:20.970 --> 00:02:23.520
Gary Schulte: I put together, so I suspect that's because she's planning to be here.

13
00:02:24.450 --> 00:02:24.780
ice.

14
00:03:13.260 --> 00:03:13.890
Francesco Andreoli: Oh hey guys.

15
00:03:15.390 --> 00:03:16.140
Grace Hartley: hey how's it going.

16
00:03:18.780 --> 00:03:19.830
Grace Hartley: How is everyone.

17
00:03:21.300 --> 00:03:21.390
Justin Florentine: You.

18
00:03:23.190 --> 00:03:23.820
Grace Hartley: know.

19
00:03:36.180 --> 00:03:37.350
Grace Hartley: Maybe share my screen.

20
00:03:42.750 --> 00:03:46.320
Grace Hartley: Francesca did you already dropped the agenda in the chat.

21
00:03:46.680 --> 00:03:47.760
Francesco Andreoli: Yes, yes.

22
00:03:47.880 --> 00:03:49.650
Francesco Andreoli: Oh amazing Oh, let me, let me.

23
00:03:49.740 --> 00:03:50.400
Francesco Andreoli: do it again.

24
00:03:50.850 --> 00:03:51.330
Grace Hartley: Oh yeah I.

25
00:03:51.630 --> 00:03:51.960
Think.

26
00:03:54.180 --> 00:03:54.540
Francesco Andreoli: you're.

27
00:04:14.400 --> 00:04:15.750
Grace Hartley: looks like we kind of have.

28
00:04:16.860 --> 00:04:19.080
Grace Hartley: Of course them, at least, so we can get started.

29
00:04:21.510 --> 00:04:28.620
Grace Hartley: It is recording so thank you, whoever did that we're at the May 10th basically tutor call.

30
00:04:30.450 --> 00:04:33.000
Grace Hartley: The antitrust notice, please follow that.

31
00:04:34.260 --> 00:04:42.450
Grace Hartley: everyone's familiar, the meeting is being recorded, please mute or speaking, if you have questions, please use the raise hand feature i'm.

32
00:04:44.160 --> 00:04:58.740
Grace Hartley: jenna so we have kind of a, I think, just to kind of I tried to get rid of maybe during set the stage for today, get rid of a lot of junk head from old agendas and I think we can spend some time if we want the incentive Program.

33
00:05:00.240 --> 00:05:08.850
Grace Hartley: Talk about the releases I think they're to work updates merge, of course, and snap saying and there's kind of some other business down here that I.

34
00:05:10.920 --> 00:05:14.820
Grace Hartley: have also left in, so I think there's quite a bit so just want to.

35
00:05:16.680 --> 00:05:23.640
Grace Hartley: Is there anything I guess like high high urgency that we must hit on this list, so we make sure we don't miss it.

36
00:05:29.880 --> 00:05:31.020
Grace Hartley: Okay, nothing so.

37
00:05:32.040 --> 00:05:33.810
Grace Hartley: Well then, we'll just.

38
00:05:35.430 --> 00:05:40.260
Grace Hartley: starting the job incentive program um so we.

39
00:05:41.340 --> 00:05:51.990
Grace Hartley: I guess there's one new update as of the last, so the final agreements are not employees, but the validators are officially up and running so just wanted to say that I know.

40
00:05:53.430 --> 00:05:57.180
Grace Hartley: heart, this is the document from the hyper ledger side.

41
00:05:59.340 --> 00:06:02.610
Grace Hartley: And now it's just a matter of the legal teams reviewing correct.

42
00:06:05.010 --> 00:06:05.640
Hart Montgomery: grace.

43
00:06:05.670 --> 00:06:12.030
Hart Montgomery: Yes, that is correct, so TIM also asked us to start doing the.

44
00:06:13.560 --> 00:06:15.720
Hart Montgomery: main net maintainer documentation.

45
00:06:17.250 --> 00:06:21.720
Hart Montgomery: I believe you were on that email, as well as Dan oh I don't know if anyone else was.

46
00:06:23.130 --> 00:06:23.460
Hart Montgomery: So.

47
00:06:23.910 --> 00:06:27.060
Danno Ferrin: Obviously being such an email, what was the title of it, and when was it sound.

48
00:06:27.690 --> 00:06:28.710
Hart Montgomery: Let me pull.

49
00:06:28.710 --> 00:06:29.670
Hart Montgomery: it up.

50
00:06:34.200 --> 00:06:35.550
Hart Montgomery: Sorry for the slight delay.

51
00:06:39.870 --> 00:06:40.320
Hart Montgomery: So.

52
00:06:42.480 --> 00:06:43.290
Hart Montgomery: you're correct.

53
00:06:45.990 --> 00:06:48.720
Hart Montgomery: Sorry, it was only grace was on it, but you are not.

54
00:06:51.060 --> 00:06:51.720
Hart Montgomery: Sorry danna.

55
00:06:56.580 --> 00:06:57.870
Danno Ferrin: sounds kind of important.

56
00:07:02.010 --> 00:07:04.200
Hart Montgomery: Yes, actually okay well.

57
00:07:06.570 --> 00:07:16.680
Hart Montgomery: Right, so I don't think it's urgent but TIM wanted us to start setting up the main net maintainer contribution list.

58
00:07:19.800 --> 00:07:31.110
Hart Montgomery: So I was going to ask the Community for suggestions on, you know how they best want to do that in the document I suggest a markdown file, where people can.

59
00:07:33.570 --> 00:07:36.270
Hart Montgomery: link their contributions and briefly say what they are.

60
00:07:39.150 --> 00:07:46.650
Hart Montgomery: So, if anyone has any suggestions on that i'd love to hear them and i'm sure TIM would probably as well.

61
00:07:51.360 --> 00:07:55.260
Justin Florentine: I believe we started tagging lots of issues with the main net tag.

62
00:07:55.350 --> 00:08:05.250
Justin Florentine: In order to help us reason about this problem, so it should be fairly easy for us to go through, and at least gather those and like you said write a synopsis on what each person contributed.

63
00:08:09.720 --> 00:08:10.320
Danno Ferrin: going on.

64
00:08:15.210 --> 00:08:18.180
Justin Florentine: 3D three months or so, since the beginning here, I believe.

65
00:08:21.690 --> 00:08:27.570
Gary Schulte: I think we started doing that in response to the problem of being able to attribute mean that contributions.

66
00:08:30.510 --> 00:08:30.810
Danno Ferrin: and

67
00:08:31.800 --> 00:08:35.070
Danno Ferrin: policy or was there some other coordination those supposed to go along with this.

68
00:08:38.850 --> 00:08:49.170
Grace Hartley: I believe this was communicated but I, I think it might be helpful to take a step back, because there are some new people and some I think some context is important.

69
00:08:50.250 --> 00:08:54.180
Grace Hartley: So i'm going to just give the context I apologize, and then we can go from there, I.

70
00:08:54.810 --> 00:08:56.310
Grace Hartley: need to look at the email from TIM I.

71
00:08:56.400 --> 00:08:59.250
Grace Hartley: didn't read it closely so we can also look at that, in a SEC.

72
00:09:00.780 --> 00:09:08.220
Grace Hartley: So as a part of the incentive program we decided that only mean that maintainer contributions will be included as a part of the.

73
00:09:10.170 --> 00:09:10.980
Grace Hartley: just go to this.

74
00:09:12.090 --> 00:09:13.320
Grace Hartley: As a part of the.

75
00:09:15.480 --> 00:09:23.280
Grace Hartley: eligibility for counting towards being eligible for receiving withdrawal keys, so we decided that there are kind of different tiers of main.

76
00:09:24.960 --> 00:09:27.060
Grace Hartley: Of contribution so if that makes sense.

77
00:09:28.290 --> 00:09:32.460
Grace Hartley: And i'm busy right now try again later no that's not fair, there we go.

78
00:09:34.620 --> 00:09:35.580
Grace Hartley: The head.

79
00:09:36.750 --> 00:09:47.130
Grace Hartley: We had different eligibility for different people, depending on their type of contribution, so there were kind of different I just want to pull it up just so we're like speaking the same thing, so there is.

80
00:09:48.180 --> 00:09:55.830
Grace Hartley: A contributor, who is individual contributor to hyper ledger base who they are not an active maintainer.

81
00:09:57.000 --> 00:09:59.430
Grace Hartley: We can talk about the maintainer process in a minute.

82
00:10:01.050 --> 00:10:04.290
Grace Hartley: They are not directly eligible for any share of the transaction fees.

83
00:10:05.610 --> 00:10:14.970
Grace Hartley: valid words or withdrawal keep just regions in the program then there's a main maintainer who is listening, who is listed as an active maintainer.

84
00:10:15.300 --> 00:10:24.060
Grace Hartley: and whose contributions are focused on the theory and minute development as defined above, so we have just i'm just setting this up, because I just think it's helpful.

85
00:10:26.730 --> 00:10:31.890
Grace Hartley: yeah So this is the theory main part just saying that out loud and then we have.

86
00:10:34.170 --> 00:10:35.670
Grace Hartley: And they are not so they're.

87
00:10:36.810 --> 00:10:43.470
Grace Hartley: eligible for sheriff transaction fees and validated rewards but are not eligible for withdrawal key distributions.

88
00:10:44.370 --> 00:10:54.570
Grace Hartley: main main centers are expected to have at least one substantial contribution to if you remain at 12 and during the vesting period to be eligible for a share of transaction fees and the theory and validated rewards.

89
00:10:56.340 --> 00:11:02.160
Grace Hartley: Then I just like and i'm saying this i'm sorry I just think I want to make sure we're saying the right language here and there's a patron maintainer.

90
00:11:03.870 --> 00:11:05.910
Grace Hartley: was, and this is at the soul requirement.

91
00:11:07.080 --> 00:11:12.600
Grace Hartley: sole discretion of it, yes, of naming, who was a patron require a pitching.

92
00:11:14.520 --> 00:11:19.260
Grace Hartley: maintainer and they're eligible for a share of the transaction fee and validator words.

93
00:11:22.440 --> 00:11:25.800
Grace Hartley: Then there's a picture organization, who is eligible also.

94
00:11:27.510 --> 00:11:42.960
Grace Hartley: For sure the transaction fee so at this point at the start of the program just to be clear consensus and hyper ledger founders are the only let's consider patreon positions now so now just we did that quick reminder, so I think we had previously discussed as a part of the.

95
00:11:44.220 --> 00:11:45.210
Grace Hartley: Work to help us.

96
00:11:46.830 --> 00:11:56.940
Grace Hartley: be able to track like who is doing may network versus who is doing, you know private you know integration with corn work, for example, is a good example of Don main network.

97
00:11:58.380 --> 00:12:01.140
Grace Hartley: We, the one proposal we put forward was.

98
00:12:02.370 --> 00:12:04.770
Grace Hartley: Having a tag to help identify that.

99
00:12:06.450 --> 00:12:14.190
Grace Hartley: In addition, there was also the discussion with TIM to say you know they definitely want it to be a Community driven.

100
00:12:15.960 --> 00:12:29.040
Grace Hartley: initiative for who is raising their hands as basically being qualifying for a meeting maintainer and patron maintainer status so with that data I can go back and look if if.

101
00:12:29.550 --> 00:12:40.500
Grace Hartley: I believe we obsess on the contributor calls of just adding a tag to help you know kind of with organization of it, but the other key was you know, it is also you can raise your own hand it's not necessarily.

102
00:12:42.660 --> 00:12:44.130
Grace Hartley: We didn't say you must have.

103
00:12:45.030 --> 00:12:47.370
Grace Hartley: attacked issues you know accordingly.

104
00:12:49.110 --> 00:12:50.250
Grace Hartley: It was just one way to help.

105
00:12:51.720 --> 00:12:57.030
Danno Ferrin: Right it's just like come into a meeting and I hear there's an email that I was supposed to be on that apparently I wasn't so it's.

106
00:12:57.120 --> 00:13:05.940
Danno Ferrin: it's a little surprising to find this out on you know a little bit of you know, find this out a few hours ago, I think, would have been better so it's just makes me feel that come out of the live.

107
00:13:07.380 --> 00:13:11.250
Danno Ferrin: Even though basically nothing's changing would be nice to you know understand that.

108
00:13:12.330 --> 00:13:13.800
Hart Montgomery: yeah sorry that's my fault for just.

109
00:13:13.800 --> 00:13:16.770
Hart Montgomery: Not checking all of the email recipients.

110
00:13:20.850 --> 00:13:21.090
Hart Montgomery: But.

111
00:13:21.390 --> 00:13:23.790
Grace Hartley: Though I think the ask, though, to be clear is that we.

112
00:13:24.180 --> 00:13:26.310
Grace Hartley: TIM would like us now to start.

113
00:13:27.630 --> 00:13:29.790
Grace Hartley: Again apologies I missed the email.

114
00:13:30.840 --> 00:13:47.340
Grace Hartley: The ask is for us to now start that Community lead initiative of self identifying or nominating someone else to be eligible for the main maintain our status and so Gary you were saying and or justin sorry.

115
00:13:50.010 --> 00:14:00.060
Grace Hartley: You know, you can self nominate i'll follow up with TIM on what what the email said exactly your heart, if you have in front of you, but we wanted to start nominating for the first period.

116
00:14:03.150 --> 00:14:03.780
Grace Hartley: Is that correct.

117
00:14:07.170 --> 00:14:08.520
Hart Montgomery: Yes, that's correct.

118
00:14:11.730 --> 00:14:14.610
Hart Montgomery: I can read the exact words, if you like.

119
00:14:18.660 --> 00:14:18.990
Hart Montgomery: I.

120
00:14:24.600 --> 00:14:26.520
Gary Schulte: Can you remind me what the first period.

121
00:14:26.730 --> 00:14:29.640
Gary Schulte: date wise comprises.

122
00:14:29.820 --> 00:14:31.830
Hart Montgomery: But it's.

123
00:14:33.090 --> 00:14:36.210
Hart Montgomery: It comprises six months after the.

124
00:14:37.410 --> 00:14:38.100
Hart Montgomery: The merge.

125
00:14:39.090 --> 00:14:41.790
Gary Schulte: OK cool so it's it's triggered by the actual merge.

126
00:14:41.850 --> 00:14:42.120
Okay.

127
00:14:43.590 --> 00:14:44.130
Gary Schulte: So.

128
00:14:46.290 --> 00:14:55.380
Hart Montgomery: yeah so TIM quote from TIM, I think the next step to set these tbd percentages, which are based on the maintainer contributions.

129
00:14:55.770 --> 00:15:09.810
Hart Montgomery: would be to compile the list of eligible contributors on the basic side, I think, for simplicity, it probably makes sense to look at contributions, since the start of this year for this first period and then have it run until withdrawals go live in the first credentials are distributed.

130
00:15:11.100 --> 00:15:12.390
Hart Montgomery: So just starting from this year.

131
00:15:16.530 --> 00:15:18.990
Grace Hartley: So I guess yeah it's not maybe that's why I.

132
00:15:20.010 --> 00:15:21.810
Grace Hartley: pay attention to it it's an urgent ask.

133
00:15:22.290 --> 00:15:22.950
Hart Montgomery: yeah it's not.

134
00:15:24.180 --> 00:15:26.400
Hart Montgomery: it's just like yeah we should.

135
00:15:27.720 --> 00:15:35.190
Hart Montgomery: yeah nothing like I think he apparently you just got the note operator proposal so like this obviously has to follow after that.

136
00:15:36.690 --> 00:15:38.610
Hart Montgomery: So it's not urgent but it's just like.

137
00:15:40.620 --> 00:15:41.040
Hart Montgomery: You know.

138
00:15:42.240 --> 00:15:48.270
Hart Montgomery: I was at the Asian meeting last time and there were some questions over how exactly we wanted to do this.

139
00:15:49.590 --> 00:15:51.780
Hart Montgomery: And I don't think anyone.

140
00:15:53.250 --> 00:16:03.120
Hart Montgomery: cares too much about how it's done as long as it's done and it's done in a way that makes it easy for the ethereum foundation folks to go over the contributions.

141
00:16:04.380 --> 00:16:06.360
Hart Montgomery: So I just was hoping to get feedback.

142
00:16:07.710 --> 00:16:09.270
Hart Montgomery: You know from you all.

143
00:16:21.930 --> 00:16:24.300
Grace Hartley: I think so, is there, someone who wants to take point of.

144
00:16:24.300 --> 00:16:26.340
Grace Hartley: Just helping consolidate that list.

145
00:16:26.760 --> 00:16:42.150
Grace Hartley: or starting to just manage the or I think the ideas and I apologize I haven't read all of agreements in a little while I was poking through them this morning, but not as closely as I have the ideas that they will self nominate by going through.

146
00:16:43.920 --> 00:16:48.990
Grace Hartley: Are we consolidate the list first are we is each person sending it directly to the.

147
00:16:50.730 --> 00:16:51.030
Grace Hartley: rubber.

148
00:16:51.690 --> 00:16:56.370
Hart Montgomery: So the way we agreed, and you actually didn't want to maintain or two to a grace.

149
00:16:56.970 --> 00:16:57.510
Grace Hartley: Yes, I.

150
00:17:00.270 --> 00:17:00.900
Grace Hartley: think we did.

151
00:17:03.510 --> 00:17:06.690
Hart Montgomery: i'm quickly modifying the text like Gray said she would do this.

152
00:17:07.170 --> 00:17:07.440
yeah.

153
00:17:08.940 --> 00:17:09.810
Hart Montgomery: No so.

154
00:17:09.870 --> 00:17:14.610
Hart Montgomery: We are we can change this like this isn't set in stone, but our.

155
00:17:16.020 --> 00:17:24.810
Hart Montgomery: Our plan was for the some hl left staff member to be responsible for creating some kind of like markdown file or something where.

156
00:17:25.230 --> 00:17:34.710
Hart Montgomery: People could add their own contribution, so the idea was that the individuals would be responsible for adding their contributions, but the like orchestration would be done by the staff.

157
00:17:36.330 --> 00:17:36.960
Grace Hartley: yeah okay.

158
00:17:37.020 --> 00:17:39.090
Grace Hartley: that's what I thought I was like.

159
00:17:40.530 --> 00:17:41.940
Grace Hartley: But it's been a few months okay.

160
00:17:42.300 --> 00:17:52.140
Hart Montgomery: So yeah The question is where do you want that file, what do you want that file to be and, like just just those sort of questions or questions for the Community.

161
00:17:54.840 --> 00:17:57.030
Grace Hartley: yeah got it I think my.

162
00:17:58.890 --> 00:18:06.390
Grace Hartley: My winning is very simple and very basic and you can put your name your github handle and like.

163
00:18:08.220 --> 00:18:20.130
Grace Hartley: links to whatever you did you know whether it's an issue, whether it's a proposal, whether you just write in what you did I don't want to like designate like I don't want to make I think are very.

164
00:18:23.610 --> 00:18:29.190
Grace Hartley: I don't know yeah i'm like however folks want to kind of just prove it i'm not i'm not to.

165
00:18:32.310 --> 00:18:35.550
Gary Schulte: Just this is this is for the self nomination process or.

166
00:18:35.940 --> 00:18:37.320
Hart Montgomery: Nomination yes yeah that's right.

167
00:18:37.740 --> 00:18:47.820
Gary Schulte: Okay, so like if you're if you're wanting to just rely on you know get get commit history and tags and things like that, then you don't necessarily need to.

168
00:18:49.740 --> 00:18:51.480
Gary Schulte: have specific entries in this mark down.

169
00:18:51.840 --> 00:18:53.970
Hart Montgomery: Though I think you need to at least put your name there.

170
00:18:55.410 --> 00:18:56.700
Gary Schulte: Okay, so this would be like the.

171
00:18:57.900 --> 00:18:59.160
Gary Schulte: The canonical list of.

172
00:18:59.520 --> 00:19:01.710
Hart Montgomery: yeah this has been made that maintainer list.

173
00:19:01.770 --> 00:19:04.860
Hart Montgomery: So if you are a basic maintainer.

174
00:19:05.730 --> 00:19:09.600
Hart Montgomery: Then you can put your name on this list, and you can you know.

175
00:19:12.870 --> 00:19:19.950
Hart Montgomery: You know, point out your your main net contributions I spoke with Sally the other week about possibly automating this.

176
00:19:21.030 --> 00:19:22.890
Hart Montgomery: But there's likely to be.

177
00:19:24.030 --> 00:19:24.510
Hart Montgomery: You know.

178
00:19:28.020 --> 00:19:35.040
Hart Montgomery: It would be surprised if we could fully automate this just because the the EFF has expressed that they don't want to have to dig through.

179
00:19:36.180 --> 00:19:39.330
Hart Montgomery: That they want to do, essentially the minimum work possible.

180
00:19:42.570 --> 00:19:46.410
Hart Montgomery: And it can sometimes be hard to put contributions in context.

181
00:19:52.380 --> 00:19:53.310
Hart Montgomery: Did that make sense.

182
00:19:54.420 --> 00:20:01.830
Gary Schulte: yeah yeah I just was curious whether this was for the self nomination, or it sounds like it's going to be the entry point for the yes.

183
00:20:02.370 --> 00:20:08.070
Hart Montgomery: yep yeah so that you have is going to come by and basically look at this like once a period.

184
00:20:09.270 --> 00:20:12.150
Hart Montgomery: and decide how to allocate the.

185
00:20:15.750 --> 00:20:16.740
Hart Montgomery: fees basically.

186
00:20:19.020 --> 00:20:20.070
Hart Montgomery: it's all in the document.

187
00:20:22.440 --> 00:20:23.370
Hart Montgomery: If you're curious.

188
00:20:27.960 --> 00:20:37.530
Grace Hartley: It sounds like, no one has strong opinions of you must include this or you must include this type of commit I think itself like.

189
00:20:38.460 --> 00:20:50.310
Grace Hartley: I think, just a very simple template sounds fine and if the staff doesn't mind is pulling together just name repo or the like you know, a template where folks can put their name their.

190
00:20:53.070 --> 00:20:55.080
Grace Hartley: github handle and the links are.

191
00:20:57.180 --> 00:20:59.010
Grace Hartley: The links to their commits I think that's fine.

192
00:21:00.000 --> 00:21:01.470
Hart Montgomery: yeah and and maybe.

193
00:21:02.640 --> 00:21:08.460
Hart Montgomery: So the question is where do we want that, and i'll figure out once we have.

194
00:21:10.350 --> 00:21:19.200
Hart Montgomery: Once we have a location i'll figure out who maintains it and it may be useful to provide some context, like sometimes fixing a tricky bug doesn't you know.

195
00:21:21.300 --> 00:21:26.250
Hart Montgomery: doesn't look like a huge contribution in metrics right.

196
00:21:28.590 --> 00:21:32.190
Danno Ferrin: And sometimes it can contribution what even being a PR to be in someone else's PR.

197
00:21:32.370 --> 00:21:32.730
yeah.

198
00:21:34.200 --> 00:21:37.440
Hart Montgomery: So if you have these kinds of contributions, you may want to list them.

199
00:21:39.030 --> 00:21:40.140
Hart Montgomery: But I mean I doubt.

200
00:21:41.520 --> 00:21:45.390
Hart Montgomery: I doubt there'll be a lot of like borderline cases.

201
00:21:46.860 --> 00:21:51.210
Hart Montgomery: So I think it's it's very clear for like a lot of people that they are.

202
00:21:54.780 --> 00:22:00.600
Hart Montgomery: The net meditators but we just want to get this in place in case we do have you know.

203
00:22:02.340 --> 00:22:04.440
Hart Montgomery: I guess we run into some Gray area cases.

204
00:22:07.080 --> 00:22:16.290
Grace Hartley: I think my only ask is that I think it it only makes sense, given the contributions already in everything here is open source for just being open list on and compete on the wiki.

205
00:22:18.060 --> 00:22:18.570
Hart Montgomery: yeah so.

206
00:22:18.840 --> 00:22:19.110
Like.

207
00:22:21.090 --> 00:22:23.070
Hart Montgomery: Our plan was for it to be an open list.

208
00:22:24.180 --> 00:22:27.120
Hart Montgomery: Do you want it on the wiki or do you want it on github somewhere what.

209
00:22:30.450 --> 00:22:31.230
Grace Hartley: Anyone care.

210
00:22:34.950 --> 00:22:40.590
Matt Nelson: I suggestion is the wiki just to keep it kind of clean and underneath the hyper ledger.

211
00:22:41.610 --> 00:22:46.470
Matt Nelson: umbrella a little more, and the github is already kind of a mess, but i'm open to suggestions.

212
00:22:53.190 --> 00:22:57.390
Justin Florentine: I was weekly leaning towards the wiki as well not not super strong opinion now.

213
00:23:02.400 --> 00:23:09.300
Gary Schulte: I lean towards github weekly just because I don't really like the wiki obviously the I can never really find anything in the hierarchy there and.

214
00:23:11.010 --> 00:23:16.290
Gary Schulte: I think a top level markdown in github would be easier, but it's.

215
00:23:17.370 --> 00:23:18.330
Gary Schulte: weekly held opinion.

216
00:23:19.620 --> 00:23:29.430
Matt Nelson: It can also be both in mind incentivize people to want to be if they're looking at the get to contribute if we mentioned the process and that there is potentially monetary reward tied to it.

217
00:23:31.560 --> 00:23:35.340
Matt Nelson: If we do it on the get directly, but I think we could also do both.

218
00:23:35.700 --> 00:23:44.490
Matt Nelson: it's not a huge lift, especially as the list is small, right now, if we get into a perspective, where we have too many contributors, that we need to manage I think that's a good problem to have and we kind of figured out there.

219
00:23:55.710 --> 00:23:57.240
Grace Hartley: Okay, so.

220
00:24:00.420 --> 00:24:01.080
Grace Hartley: Both for now.

221
00:24:03.840 --> 00:24:06.030
Grace Hartley: I think it's only gonna be like seven people so it's.

222
00:24:07.560 --> 00:24:07.800
Grace Hartley: Okay.

223
00:24:08.160 --> 00:24:10.890
Hart Montgomery: How are we doing duplication if it's both.

224
00:24:12.870 --> 00:24:15.090
Justin Florentine: yeah I don't know that we should design duplication.

225
00:24:17.490 --> 00:24:17.880
Hart Montgomery: yeah.

226
00:24:19.590 --> 00:24:22.410
Matt Nelson: Is there a way for the wiki to pull from the markdown and just display it.

227
00:24:22.710 --> 00:24:24.780
Matt Nelson: On the on the on the page.

228
00:24:26.970 --> 00:24:28.470
Matt Nelson: Like if we did a markdown on github.

229
00:24:29.040 --> 00:24:30.420
Justin Florentine: I have seen that done.

230
00:24:30.510 --> 00:24:35.820
Justin Florentine: I have done that in past lives, like, I could not speak to the current capabilities of hyper ledger is wiki.

231
00:24:41.340 --> 00:24:44.640
Matt Nelson: seems like it would be relatively trivial, but again I don't want to speak to that.

232
00:24:46.980 --> 00:24:48.210
Justin Florentine: By out of band.

233
00:24:49.380 --> 00:24:55.440
Justin Florentine: And then, why don't we just do it in github for now and figure out a way to make it accessible from with the wiki.

234
00:24:58.020 --> 00:24:58.470
Karim T.: yeah.

235
00:25:04.080 --> 00:25:04.830
Grace Hartley: Sorry go ahead.

236
00:25:05.550 --> 00:25:09.720
Hart Montgomery: No, that this is fine, I mean we don't have to immediately do this to this is not a.

237
00:25:10.980 --> 00:25:13.020
Hart Montgomery: This is not something that needs to be done.

238
00:25:14.670 --> 00:25:15.390
Hart Montgomery: immediately.

239
00:25:16.560 --> 00:25:19.260
Hart Montgomery: I don't know if it's possible to pull.

240
00:25:20.850 --> 00:25:27.660
Hart Montgomery: From github on the wiki i'll ask i'm not a wiki expert, by any stretch of the imagination.

241
00:25:31.110 --> 00:25:35.160
Hart Montgomery: There might be possible, in theory, it should be possible, but you just never know if these things.

242
00:25:37.260 --> 00:25:48.360
Grace Hartley: Okay, why do we have a tentative plan and housing on github link linking or having at least be fundable, on the wiki is great, and everyone will self.

243
00:25:50.130 --> 00:25:53.160
Grace Hartley: Besides that, I think we can keep moving just because we have a big agenda.

244
00:25:56.760 --> 00:25:58.830
Grace Hartley: Release updates looks like jason's next for.

245
00:26:00.540 --> 00:26:04.080
Grace Hartley: Any comments or questions on the releases.

246
00:26:07.680 --> 00:26:15.360
Danno Ferrin: people think of this last session, where we just did everything straight off a master branch good bad do it again do it again.

247
00:26:16.350 --> 00:26:16.920
Justin Florentine: I like that.

248
00:26:17.280 --> 00:26:18.330
Gary Schulte: yep was great.

249
00:26:21.090 --> 00:26:31.350
Danno Ferrin: Okay, for 22 seven, then I would propose we do the same thing, where the RC is replaced the weeklies and we just keep going off of master it really simplifies development.

250
00:26:34.380 --> 00:26:35.310
Justin Florentine: I get behind that.

251
00:26:36.570 --> 00:26:42.930
jiri: I haven't been any studies like kind of risky to just do directly put into this shadow folks and stop when should I do with that then.

252
00:26:43.590 --> 00:26:54.510
jiri: Today, and I would like to have some I don't know i'm just curious like nobody minds, if I just put it into master and something breaks for people then and then i'm not.

253
00:26:55.920 --> 00:26:58.050
jiri: Too much against it, but like I don't.

254
00:26:59.130 --> 00:27:00.000
jiri: understand what I mean.

255
00:27:00.630 --> 00:27:01.080
Danno Ferrin: So we're.

256
00:27:01.590 --> 00:27:09.480
Danno Ferrin: Growing right we don't we haven't had beta builds or branch builds except for the merge for most of the history of base you.

257
00:27:10.920 --> 00:27:15.390
Danno Ferrin: we've been trying to keep a master everything builds everything runs correctly.

258
00:27:17.550 --> 00:27:24.810
Danno Ferrin: For a long time because we got you know the reference tests, a huge suite of acceptance tests, so, in theory, any known break it should happen immediately.

259
00:27:25.290 --> 00:27:32.790
Danno Ferrin: But that's also the reason why we have the quarterly beta releases with RC releases were things that we know that are risky and high risk.

260
00:27:34.080 --> 00:27:40.950
Danno Ferrin: I traditionally waited to put big things like that, like the vm refactoring and the switch from gas too long.

261
00:27:41.340 --> 00:27:48.180
Danno Ferrin: i've waited for those to go into like the RC one or the RC two releases, so we get a couple of months, not a couple of months, a couple of weeks.

262
00:27:48.510 --> 00:27:57.390
Danno Ferrin: of an appropriately labeled build that says hey this might break on you, you know it's an RC or it's a beta you shouldn't expect production quality out of it, although we think its production quality.

263
00:27:57.960 --> 00:28:09.000
Danno Ferrin: We put some risky things and so that kind of has been the philosophy we have for a while, if there is a different philosophy we should go to i'm all for it, we just probably need to formalize it so everyone is on the same page.

264
00:28:13.260 --> 00:28:19.050
jiri: So Should I be aware of a from which built, we are building towards or something that that's what we're saying.

265
00:28:20.100 --> 00:28:24.720
Danno Ferrin: right when you have like a something that's going to break backwards compatibility or something that's a high risk change.

266
00:28:25.140 --> 00:28:36.570
Danno Ferrin: um we've been holding off until the quarterly releases to have the first drop of it so you'd have a PR it might go on for a long time, and then, when we start doing the beta builds it gets merged first, so we have a lot more long.

267
00:28:37.350 --> 00:28:41.670
Danno Ferrin: build time that's also when we've been trying to do our major.

268
00:28:42.180 --> 00:28:50.250
Danno Ferrin: Dependency upgrades we've kind of you know, fallen off the wagon with the we don't have a formal policy or anyone tasked with making sure that happens, or anything on a checklist.

269
00:28:50.580 --> 00:28:57.930
Danno Ferrin: But that's also in the past when we've been adding you know all our major upgrades because you'll be surprised at what dependencies.

270
00:28:59.280 --> 00:29:10.050
Danno Ferrin: No one's really good with some very version, they say they are, but when it comes when the rubber hits the road there's always things that break because we might have been depending on a bug so that's part of the reason why we.

271
00:29:10.650 --> 00:29:17.640
Danno Ferrin: We would upgrade security related ones as needed and we would do bulk upgrades on the quarter is kind of you know, the quarterly releases.

272
00:29:19.470 --> 00:29:21.210
Danno Ferrin: To do that, so.

273
00:29:25.740 --> 00:29:27.720
jiri: Okay i'm just a little bit worried that.

274
00:29:28.500 --> 00:29:46.380
jiri: keeping my fingers for later might first issue, some other one in some other way Okay, I would like to integrate with if anybody else has similar things like port quarterly release or something I would like to integrate sooner rather than later anyways anyways as an example.

275
00:29:46.800 --> 00:29:49.740
Karim T.: But your feature it's experimental feature or something.

276
00:29:52.110 --> 00:29:57.360
jiri: So i'm working on these backlighting things, and when I change something and.

277
00:29:59.580 --> 00:30:10.860
jiri: You know I don't want to depress people by breaking something that what he was working before or why are we moving with using we've already said, oh faults.

278
00:30:11.400 --> 00:30:21.690
jiri: So, ideally, if I would like you to always have the newest build and my own built with with that think in parallel to see whether I didn't break something from the next gen four or whatever.

279
00:30:22.110 --> 00:30:27.630
jiri: But that's like just in my head, so I was just thinking, how can I do it in a way that I don't disappoint people.

280
00:30:32.640 --> 00:30:34.680
jiri: I don't know if that explains this change.

281
00:30:35.340 --> 00:30:36.120
Karim T.: Anything yes, yes.

282
00:30:38.190 --> 00:30:47.280
Danno Ferrin: it's mostly getting used to acceptable levels of risk um yeah I agree that's it's hard to manage it's hard to balance and there's.

283
00:30:48.510 --> 00:31:01.230
Danno Ferrin: You know you don't want to break other people's work but at some point it's gonna have to merge and you'll find out one way or the other testing supposed to address this, but none of us are as clever as as the people finding the box so it's it's always a challenge.

284
00:31:02.370 --> 00:31:07.080
Gary Schulte: there's also some middle ground, especially with the shadow forks in this case theory is that we can.

285
00:31:07.650 --> 00:31:19.710
Gary Schulte: Do do these snapshot builds off of a branch that's not necessarily been merged in domain and participate in the shadow fork with those and give some additional confidence in the changes before we merge domain.

286
00:31:32.340 --> 00:31:33.180
Okay, thank you.

287
00:31:35.340 --> 00:31:35.670
Grace Hartley: cool.

288
00:31:36.840 --> 00:31:37.710
Grace Hartley: that's good feedback.

289
00:31:39.900 --> 00:31:44.370
Grace Hartley: interest of time just moving along or any final release commentary.

290
00:31:47.430 --> 00:31:50.010
Grace Hartley: cool work up the verge update.

291
00:31:51.030 --> 00:31:55.320
Grace Hartley: Who would like to speak to this, I think, mostly everyone's on the same page.

292
00:31:57.420 --> 00:32:00.060
Gary Schulte: And you can see merge.

293
00:32:01.950 --> 00:32:04.200
Gary Schulte: merge is coming along nicely there is.

294
00:32:05.250 --> 00:32:12.870
Gary Schulte: tentatively, we would like to get in the 22 for dot one release.

295
00:32:14.250 --> 00:32:19.590
Gary Schulte: The next release of that merge configurations in terminal total difficulty for robson.

296
00:32:20.850 --> 00:32:27.840
Gary Schulte: there's some outstanding work that we have to make sure that we're passing the hive to test suite.

297
00:32:28.860 --> 00:32:39.630
Gary Schulte: we've got some additional sort of soft criteria that we want to have before we have a robson specific merge release we are just mostly regarding.

298
00:32:40.200 --> 00:32:49.290
Gary Schulte: Specific behavior with the latest valid hash and, like our sink cases when we start singing prior to tdd terminal total difficulty.

299
00:32:49.800 --> 00:32:59.460
Gary Schulte: And finished sync pivot past terminal total difficulty and just making sure it since the merge complicates a lot of the six situations we want to make sure that we.

300
00:33:00.660 --> 00:33:16.620
Gary Schulte: singing crossing tdd and sinking post tdd are solid before we bake that into a release but that's pretty much where the the merge statuses right now we're looking towards this next release supporting at least the merge of robson.

301
00:33:21.630 --> 00:33:23.340
Grace Hartley: cool that's exciting any questions.

302
00:33:24.540 --> 00:33:27.930
Justin Florentine: there's also a main net shadow for for on Thursday.

303
00:33:29.160 --> 00:33:30.060
Justin Florentine: Just a heads up.

304
00:33:35.520 --> 00:33:36.210
Grace Hartley: awesome.

305
00:33:39.180 --> 00:33:41.580
Grace Hartley: Kareem any update was thinking particular.

306
00:33:42.330 --> 00:33:44.280
Karim T.: um yes more dangerous.

307
00:33:44.310 --> 00:33:49.590
Karim T.: To say we melt Susan obscene cons main branch it says reasons or last released so.

308
00:33:49.620 --> 00:33:55.620
Karim T.: 24 dot zero and we did some benchmarks, we have good results.

309
00:33:56.730 --> 00:34:11.700
Karim T.: With not we are working on the block to to specify, although, as a result, we have, and just to summarize summarize it, we have, for example, we reduce the time of the world states, thanks to snap seeing.

310
00:34:12.240 --> 00:34:34.890
Karim T.: On your leaf on four hours to one hours on galley and on main at it from one days and 20 worlds to six our worlds and a half, something like that so it's improving the world stage part and we still have some students and blocking port but thats related to snap sync.

311
00:34:36.330 --> 00:34:45.240
Karim T.: And some user started to use snap thing, so we found some small issues, but nothing important, so we are trying to fix that.

312
00:34:49.500 --> 00:34:50.910
Grace Hartley: And it's all feedback is good.

313
00:34:51.210 --> 00:34:52.020
Grace Hartley: that's a good thing.

314
00:34:54.300 --> 00:34:58.500
Grace Hartley: Good it's someone is actually using it that's where we want.

315
00:34:59.550 --> 00:35:01.530
Karim T.: To have it good job cream.

316
00:35:01.620 --> 00:35:03.480
Danno Ferrin: Congratulations thanks.

317
00:35:03.870 --> 00:35:05.850
Gary Schulte: yeah congrats that's it was a tall order.

318
00:35:08.160 --> 00:35:09.720
Grace Hartley: awesome that's exciting.

319
00:35:10.950 --> 00:35:17.190
Grace Hartley: Next up automate security bots I think we did this last time we don't have any high.

320
00:35:17.670 --> 00:35:19.290
Grace Hartley: Priority request correct.

321
00:35:19.800 --> 00:35:21.690
Danno Ferrin: We don't even have a unique requests.

322
00:35:21.930 --> 00:35:22.290
yeah.

323
00:35:23.340 --> 00:35:23.550
Grace Hartley: yeah.

324
00:35:24.780 --> 00:35:32.160
Grace Hartley: I figured next one, the debugging issue justin is there any other updates here that you want to share.

325
00:35:32.820 --> 00:35:45.540
Justin Florentine: I think this is okay, since we switched from debbie into ubuntu we have much better access to jd case, and so the debug image I just need to update it from using a Jerry to a jdk so it has the tools that we need on there.

326
00:35:45.840 --> 00:35:49.290
Justin Florentine: So I think we're good on that see constructed from the agenda for.

327
00:35:51.120 --> 00:35:57.240
Gary Schulte: Related to that, since it is doctor related, we are now building multi arch docker images.

328
00:35:58.290 --> 00:36:17.190
Gary Schulte: So the basic hyper ledger basically images should have amd 64 and arm 64 multi arch builds I think there's there's currently an outstanding problem with the develop multi arch build but i'm gonna see if I can sort that out shortly, but that's been a long, long a long time coming.

329
00:36:22.440 --> 00:36:22.800
Grace Hartley: what's up.

330
00:36:23.460 --> 00:36:24.150
Grace Hartley: Oh good things.

331
00:36:26.970 --> 00:36:34.260
Grace Hartley: So I think this is, I believe this is new around the code containers and non code maintainer proposal.

332
00:36:35.760 --> 00:36:37.920
Grace Hartley: Who is the right person to speak to this.

333
00:36:45.990 --> 00:36:51.990
Justin Florentine: Go yeah go ahead, no, I was just kind of organizing the communication on this, it was something that we talked about in the past.

334
00:36:52.470 --> 00:36:57.480
Justin Florentine: And I know that I set up a separate group and get hub, so that we can provide project managers and.

335
00:36:58.260 --> 00:37:07.380
Justin Florentine: You know other other folks that are interested in prioritizing and road mapping and milestones and all that fun stuff get them the access that they need to it, so I think this kind of just codifies that.

336
00:37:07.740 --> 00:37:09.060
Danno Ferrin: puts it into a document so.

337
00:37:09.060 --> 00:37:19.710
Justin Florentine: We can vote the same way we vote on everything else, and the details on how to do that are outlined in our existing process for onboarding new members and awarding them rights and get up.

338
00:37:20.880 --> 00:37:29.910
Justin Florentine: So I don't know that we need to discuss it a different approval process, because the existing one does cover this case and I believe there's already been.

339
00:37:30.990 --> 00:37:36.360
Justin Florentine: A separate section added to the maintainer that defines these people as non code maintainer.

340
00:37:37.260 --> 00:37:46.020
Danno Ferrin: So that's also glossing over what happened in 3790 were asked, we need this process and the PR was removed, and there were some open questions, but I don't think we're resolved.

341
00:37:46.830 --> 00:37:55.770
Danno Ferrin: One of them is it does that group with triage is that have the rights that they need when never heard back on that is that route actually working does.

342
00:37:57.810 --> 00:38:00.630
Danno Ferrin: He was a that we had back in a.

343
00:38:01.710 --> 00:38:03.210
Danno Ferrin: growing up my page, where I had these.

344
00:38:07.980 --> 00:38:23.460
Danno Ferrin: Group is a page I had this 3790 or 30 530-359-3359 when we're looking to get Ryan Jones and we put them in a different group, but those permissions are those permissions sufficient can he do his job.

345
00:38:27.120 --> 00:38:27.960
Justin Florentine: I don't know.

346
00:38:29.940 --> 00:38:35.430
Danno Ferrin: So um, we need to answer that question because that's going to be the permission, that the non code maintenance would get.

347
00:38:36.180 --> 00:38:48.120
Danno Ferrin: So that's that's an open question and I guess the next thing would be you know when when this was decided to be closed three months ago, back in February, I want to know what what changed, why is this, why are we, you know.

348
00:38:49.860 --> 00:38:54.150
Danno Ferrin: What what's what's what's substantially different from it so that's my my main ask.

349
00:38:56.640 --> 00:39:01.950
Justin Florentine: My understanding is that it was closed because we were providing a separate tier of users there.

350
00:39:04.260 --> 00:39:05.580
Danno Ferrin: right but.

351
00:39:07.470 --> 00:39:16.260
Danno Ferrin: So it was a proposal is to add him as a non code maintainer and then ask the questions with the Chico changes be sufficient, and then.

352
00:39:17.700 --> 00:39:21.810
Danno Ferrin: Okay, so this is the this one when did this going.

353
00:39:24.930 --> 00:39:27.030
Danno Ferrin: This was an edit to the main tanners list.

354
00:39:29.430 --> 00:39:36.630
Justin Florentine: Right, this is, if you click on the files change, you can see there's just it's just making a separate section for the two people that were already.

355
00:39:38.040 --> 00:39:40.890
Justin Florentine: on that list Madeline and Saturday, I believe.

356
00:39:41.940 --> 00:39:43.080
Danno Ferrin: right but.

357
00:39:46.560 --> 00:39:54.630
Danno Ferrin: The vibe I got from the from the James things that we were going to stop having this category and we were just going to give him the rights as needed.

358
00:39:55.710 --> 00:40:07.650
Danno Ferrin: Just to move it and if the triage was going to be sufficient So the first thing I would want to know is, is triage sufficient is it working, and I think that's actually the most important question above should we have not good maintenance or not.

359
00:40:09.000 --> 00:40:14.730
Matt Nelson: yeah so I could I could speak to this a little bit I was trying to like currently can't log into my.

360
00:40:15.300 --> 00:40:28.500
Matt Nelson: Get incentive for some reason, so that's another issue, but the other day, when I tested the permissions, of the one group with rive it's it seems sufficient to be able to triage like label, create new issues and, like move stuff around.

361
00:40:30.030 --> 00:40:33.990
Matt Nelson: But, again, I, I want to confirm that, right now, but I just seemingly can't login.

362
00:40:36.090 --> 00:40:36.480
Helen George: yeah.

363
00:40:38.250 --> 00:40:48.300
Helen George: i'm Helen I was requesting a church role before, and it was sufficient to be added to that team to be able to do the things that I wanted to do.

364
00:40:49.590 --> 00:40:57.480
Danno Ferrin: Okay, so um that's great that's good news actually if the triage group is providing the work we need um.

365
00:41:00.360 --> 00:41:04.380
Danno Ferrin: Do we need a heavyweight process to add remove people from that list I guess is my next question.

366
00:41:04.740 --> 00:41:18.120
Danno Ferrin: Because this having a vote and having to have two weeks out there and then having to have a vote to take people off when they move on to other projects that seems fairly heavyweight for for what's going on here um is it doing need to be this heavyweight.

367
00:41:21.120 --> 00:41:35.250
Helen George: From my perspective, my opinion is that we won't need it, I think, having it just being added to the triage team was sufficient so i'll be for not having a heavy process for it.

368
00:41:36.600 --> 00:41:36.960
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

369
00:41:37.470 --> 00:41:44.970
Danno Ferrin: i'm more of a lighter weight process more of a hey i'm working with this team, the team says yes they're working with me that's something I would support.

370
00:41:46.530 --> 00:41:47.400
Helen George: I would agree with that.

371
00:41:50.160 --> 00:41:58.830
Matt Nelson: yeah and I can also confirm I just got got logged into my permissions are working correctly, so the group should at least be sufficient to to get it done what we need.

372
00:42:00.390 --> 00:42:00.690
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

373
00:42:01.710 --> 00:42:02.670
Grace Hartley: um.

374
00:42:04.080 --> 00:42:04.410
Danno Ferrin: cool.

375
00:42:05.010 --> 00:42:15.660
Grace Hartley: So part of my ignorance so there's a triage group permission there's a maintainer level permission, obviously I know what the maintainer process is we're saying that.

376
00:42:17.520 --> 00:42:19.710
Grace Hartley: Are we So are we saying we no longer need.

377
00:42:21.930 --> 00:42:27.030
Grace Hartley: What we used to get like, for example, we gave DJ maintain or access what he was a pm.

378
00:42:28.350 --> 00:42:31.860
Grace Hartley: And now, and TIM gay so we're saying.

379
00:42:33.120 --> 00:42:34.380
Grace Hartley: it's no longer required.

380
00:42:35.490 --> 00:42:35.820
Danno Ferrin: Right.

381
00:42:36.660 --> 00:42:40.410
Grace Hartley: we're just gonna give triage access networks and there's no non code.

382
00:42:41.130 --> 00:42:42.750
Grace Hartley: And right maintainer status.

383
00:42:43.260 --> 00:42:49.170
Danno Ferrin: right that will we put it, a different name or whatever, but we don't think we need to have, I think processes to heavyweight.

384
00:42:49.560 --> 00:43:02.460
Danno Ferrin: I guess we've been my thing, but it was different than was triage level wasn't working with them hub they required right access and they were acquired the access level that allows you to press the merge button and that does need to heavyweight process but.

385
00:43:02.700 --> 00:43:10.590
Danno Ferrin: You have pushed the merge button um I don't I feel like the heavyweight process is going to cause too much friction in getting people's work done.

386
00:43:13.410 --> 00:43:16.680
Danno Ferrin: So we could we could rename it or do whatever but i'm.

387
00:43:18.120 --> 00:43:23.850
Danno Ferrin: i'm satisfied giving triage to people who work with our teams, without having to go through a formal process involving voting.

388
00:43:25.140 --> 00:43:25.680
Matt Nelson: I can did.

389
00:43:29.370 --> 00:43:29.610
Danno Ferrin: yeah.

390
00:43:29.760 --> 00:43:31.560
Grace Hartley: I mean I don't anyone have.

391
00:43:31.830 --> 00:43:35.220
Grace Hartley: So basically maintain or access, you can hit merge.

392
00:43:36.570 --> 00:43:37.740
Grace Hartley: triage access, you can.

393
00:43:38.070 --> 00:43:43.200
Grace Hartley: So no process required get triage access as requested, basically.

394
00:43:43.860 --> 00:43:45.540
Danno Ferrin: So social process required not.

395
00:43:47.730 --> 00:43:48.030
Grace Hartley: Okay.

396
00:43:48.330 --> 00:43:48.840
Grace Hartley: cool cool cool.

397
00:43:49.050 --> 00:43:55.230
Grace Hartley: Any objections or comments that things that I I wasn't clear on the nuances myself so that was helpful for me.

398
00:43:55.890 --> 00:43:57.510
Gary Schulte: Historically, is there any other.

399
00:43:58.530 --> 00:44:01.320
Gary Schulte: You know, besides merging is there anything else that.

400
00:44:01.680 --> 00:44:05.160
Gary Schulte: i'm a PM role would would need.

401
00:44:06.360 --> 00:44:09.750
Gary Schulte: Like a triage role would need because it doesn't seem terribly.

402
00:44:12.060 --> 00:44:21.870
Gary Schulte: In a pressing to be able to hit the merge button so just wonder if there's anything else that was causing prayer like bj or attempt to need maintainer access.

403
00:44:22.500 --> 00:44:30.450
Danno Ferrin: Then hub wouldn't let you even login unless you have write access to you couldn't move stuff around you couldn't use then have they fixed their permission issues in the last year, it looks like.

404
00:44:31.170 --> 00:44:31.410
Oh.

405
00:44:33.030 --> 00:44:33.390
Danno Ferrin: cool.

406
00:44:37.140 --> 00:44:38.610
Gary Schulte: yeah no objection sounds great.

407
00:44:40.620 --> 00:44:40.950
Grace Hartley: cool.

408
00:44:41.040 --> 00:44:43.920
Grace Hartley: that's exciting what problems are solved.

409
00:44:46.080 --> 00:44:51.750
Grace Hartley: sounds good, Francesco just make sure to just kind of capture that knows when you get a SEC, because I think that's helpful.

410
00:44:53.760 --> 00:44:56.670
Grace Hartley: Next security audit update so.

411
00:44:57.840 --> 00:45:05.340
Grace Hartley: I just this was me, I had a question I know we've had we had some conversations about going through a security on it with.

412
00:45:06.780 --> 00:45:15.360
Grace Hartley: To form and I just didn't know what latest was or if they had started or what their current timeline was I know we wanted to be the only for the first.

413
00:45:17.310 --> 00:45:25.830
Grace Hartley: First, or and or only client to go through consensus client to go through a security audit prior to the merge so just was curious where we were.

414
00:45:26.520 --> 00:45:42.390
Danno Ferrin: So one thing they need is a survey filled out and I don't know enough the details about the merge ports and everything else that up to I think sufficiently fill it out that's one thing they need from the developers, but other than that they're trying to get stuff started so.

415
00:45:45.210 --> 00:45:51.810
Danno Ferrin: No clear information on the timeline once we get the information on the ports needed for.

416
00:45:52.830 --> 00:45:59.340
Danno Ferrin: For merge access margin what's, what do you call you know call it the merge poor woody, what do you call it.

417
00:45:59.430 --> 00:46:00.030
Gary Schulte: Engine X.

418
00:46:01.170 --> 00:46:07.080
Danno Ferrin: ethan did, yes, the ethan's import so once we get the information on that I think they can get it slotted in and scheduled.

419
00:46:10.590 --> 00:46:11.280
Justin Florentine: it's actually.

420
00:46:12.750 --> 00:46:14.070
Justin Florentine: Changing at the moment.

421
00:46:15.330 --> 00:46:18.660
Justin Florentine: So, but yeah that's no problem, we can get them that, as soon as possible.

422
00:46:20.670 --> 00:46:22.320
Gary Schulte: So did you already start a.

423
00:46:23.550 --> 00:46:25.620
Gary Schulte: The questionnaire.

424
00:46:27.000 --> 00:46:32.880
Gary Schulte: response DEMO and we can feel that energy want us to start from scratch, and then we can socialize the answers.

425
00:46:33.180 --> 00:46:44.100
Danno Ferrin: I think we should start from scratch, I got a brief look at it, and then I got to look at my work deadline timeline last week and I kind of freaked out so Luckily, the deadlines past, so I can get some more time on it.

426
00:46:48.420 --> 00:46:58.080
Gary Schulte: Okay, we can we can add that to the to the list of things to do as soon i'm pretty I think I saw recently the last heir to the questionnaire come through so we can get a start on that and then just maybe.

427
00:46:58.890 --> 00:47:03.810
Gary Schulte: communicate that via the Channel and make sure that everybody is in agreement on the answers.

428
00:47:07.440 --> 00:47:07.830
Grace Hartley: awesome.

429
00:47:09.420 --> 00:47:10.050
Grace Hartley: sounds good to me.

430
00:47:14.130 --> 00:47:16.230
Grace Hartley: Thanks appreciate the update on that I wasn't actually sure.

431
00:47:18.540 --> 00:47:24.960
Grace Hartley: last item here this section later experience with a Su man, I know you kind of want to add this to the agenda.

432
00:47:26.880 --> 00:47:32.760
Matt Nelson: Is for just a brief point and as career mentioned it's kind of it's relating to work that we're already doing ongoing.

433
00:47:33.180 --> 00:47:41.550
Matt Nelson: But we're looking at how we kind of are going to start prioritizing post merge kind of features and and development roadmaps.

434
00:47:42.150 --> 00:47:52.260
Matt Nelson: So you know I, personally, I think that it's It makes sense, given some of our users and customers to look at the validator experience and you know put some of our energy there.

435
00:47:52.800 --> 00:47:56.730
Matt Nelson: But I wanted to, of course, bring it up with this group to see thoughts and concerns and.

436
00:47:57.540 --> 00:48:06.900
Matt Nelson: discuss kind of what that looks like but right now it's mostly around basically making sure that we're getting the right attention usage of our already existing features around things like bonsai instead of saying.

437
00:48:07.650 --> 00:48:21.990
Matt Nelson: And kind of positioning base, who is very performant and you know kind of robust when it comes to that validator stack on the Net, but again, it was mostly just a means to bring it up to discussion and see if anyone had any other issues, against this kind of direction.

438
00:48:25.170 --> 00:48:26.700
Matt Nelson: But yeah it's kind of my point.

439
00:48:36.720 --> 00:48:38.160
Matt Nelson: It sounds it's golden so that's.

440
00:48:38.250 --> 00:48:41.280
Gary Schulte: that's yeah I mean the more the more exposure we get.

441
00:48:42.630 --> 00:48:52.650
Gary Schulte: I think the more noise, you make about the basically as a execution engine and emerge, I think the better, especially when we can help those features that are differentiating.

442
00:48:56.340 --> 00:49:02.760
jiri: So do we want to already advertisers is the most performant or something or do you want to first before we do that.

443
00:49:03.630 --> 00:49:18.930
Matt Nelson: Well, I want to make sure that we can not lie right so we're we're we're working on those i'm working on the pieces now to talk through some of the things like with with snap sinking with bonds i've you know we are more performant in some areas, not necessarily the most performance.

444
00:49:20.190 --> 00:49:28.740
Matt Nelson: But you know with with your work area around backwards thinking and thinking through kind of some novel approaches, I think we'll have more ground to stand on but.

445
00:49:29.760 --> 00:49:35.430
Matt Nelson: yeah, I just wanted, you know this is this is mostly to validate the approach, and I think that we have kind of what we need to go forward.

446
00:49:42.120 --> 00:49:56.700
Hart Montgomery: So i'll jump in here and say, if you want to do some kind of like advertising or promotion campaign or anything like that i'd encourage you to mail the car architects David boswell does a lot of stuff with this, so you may want to.

447
00:49:58.560 --> 00:49:59.760
Hart Montgomery: may want to talk to him about it.

448
00:50:02.310 --> 00:50:02.760
Matt Nelson: awesome.

449
00:50:03.030 --> 00:50:04.380
Matt Nelson: i'll write that down and take a note.

450
00:50:13.980 --> 00:50:14.550
Grace Hartley: Already.

451
00:50:17.400 --> 00:50:20.010
Grace Hartley: 12 minutes left, I think.

452
00:50:21.030 --> 00:50:25.200
Grace Hartley: i'm going to propose we skip the insights time and maybe just look at the roadmap.

453
00:50:26.700 --> 00:50:27.690
Grace Hartley: Any objections.

454
00:50:29.670 --> 00:50:30.090
Justin Florentine: love it.

455
00:50:34.170 --> 00:50:34.980
Grace Hartley: let's see.

456
00:50:39.930 --> 00:50:43.830
Grace Hartley: So just be clear matt looks like this is the latest and greatest.

457
00:50:45.780 --> 00:50:49.350
Grace Hartley: is up to 22.4 that we want to talk to just 22.7.

458
00:50:50.130 --> 00:51:01.470
Matt Nelson: yeah so I mean we again we haven't really we've been kind of in a whirlwind process of looking at this actual road mapping, so I would suggest, I would say that the 22 dot four items, some of them are probably pushed down a little bit.

459
00:51:02.340 --> 00:51:11.640
Matt Nelson: But you know, like we have bonsai of course snap sync and the lot of the client enhancements are either in progress, or are being pushed in kind of now.

460
00:51:12.600 --> 00:51:23.910
Matt Nelson: That movie stuff we've thought were thinking it through, but it's it's kind of lower priority in terms of being focused around the merge and making sure that we're merged compliant and participating appropriately in the test that's.

461
00:51:24.330 --> 00:51:29.820
Matt Nelson: Also, the spec is kind of in flux with regards to the entire Community, so that one is a little bit.

462
00:51:30.750 --> 00:51:40.890
Matt Nelson: I mean this roadmap item is correct, we are exploring the options for supporting it, maybe, but we do not have a way forward, yet and it's kind of still in progress, and if you go down on 22 seven.

463
00:51:41.940 --> 00:51:50.910
Matt Nelson: yeah so it's still these are still kind of have some of our open items here of course working on the merge, as usual, seeing how we can support roll ups more broadly.

464
00:51:52.440 --> 00:52:00.150
Matt Nelson: around you know general program ability for repurchasing some api's in order to better support different roll ups frameworks.

465
00:52:00.720 --> 00:52:11.340
Matt Nelson: So we have ways forward on this it's more a matter of when do we want to kind of prioritize this and and get you know feedback from everybody on what's the approach should be to reduce.

466
00:52:12.450 --> 00:52:21.300
Matt Nelson: Possible introductions of regressions or issues with regards to the merge, so it the timelines on these are a little bit in flux, but it's mostly around you know how do we prioritize.

467
00:52:21.840 --> 00:52:33.330
Matt Nelson: again being merged compliant with some of these other things like like MTV like roll up support and then of course the ever looming Shanghai for.

468
00:52:34.500 --> 00:52:41.790
Matt Nelson: So it's a matter of timelines and I think that the merge timelines says are starting to kind of solidify but there's no official.

469
00:52:42.120 --> 00:52:54.930
Matt Nelson: date yet so as we know a little more about that will be able to kind of rework some of these roadmap items i'd say bye for now they're they're pretty much notional on the next quarterly release focusing on the merge at the top.

470
00:52:56.520 --> 00:53:08.280
Matt Nelson: would be my would be my suggestion, so I can go in, at some point to that effect once I know a little bit more, and then clean this up with with some feedback and comments and see what people have to say.

471
00:53:15.090 --> 00:53:16.110
Grace Hartley: cool that sounds good.

472
00:53:22.710 --> 00:53:23.940
Grace Hartley: Any comments or questions.

473
00:53:30.210 --> 00:53:36.780
Danno Ferrin: Any clarity on what optimistic support would mean would we have a roll up to to run from basic we joined and other roll ups.

474
00:53:37.740 --> 00:53:38.220
Matt Nelson: yeah so.

475
00:53:38.340 --> 00:53:42.060
Danno Ferrin: I understand that road communities are all single client so far.

476
00:53:43.080 --> 00:53:47.340
Matt Nelson: yeah so pretty much everything as far as main is concerned is running on guests.

477
00:53:48.720 --> 00:54:03.030
Matt Nelson: We have to kind of I have to engage a little bit more with those groups and see what the desire is for client diversity, because you know, in the ecosystem, the client diversity issues is no longer just a problem for layer one it's kind of permeating everywhere.

478
00:54:03.540 --> 00:54:18.660
Matt Nelson: So you know I want to understand the requirements of these other roll ups, a little bit better and then of course there's you know some changes that we can make kind of in the short term around roll ups, you know products kind of.

479
00:54:19.740 --> 00:54:25.500
Matt Nelson: To maybe say provide more api's essentially to allow them to do specific things.

480
00:54:25.800 --> 00:54:31.920
Matt Nelson: Around program ability and block production that are a little bit more unique that could help with some of these optimistic roll ups use cases.

481
00:54:32.130 --> 00:54:38.070
Matt Nelson: So just doing an exploration not committing to anything quite yet and just really need to understand the requirements little bit better.

482
00:54:38.610 --> 00:54:45.180
Matt Nelson: But there have been discussions around kind of roll up client diversity and how can be soo slotted to those plans more efficiently.

483
00:54:45.690 --> 00:54:55.350
Matt Nelson: And if that's providing a new set of api's that allow roll ups themselves to interact with the execution engine in a little bit different way, I think that as long as it's merged safe.

484
00:54:55.380 --> 00:54:57.090
Matt Nelson: it's appropriate to explore, but we.

485
00:54:57.270 --> 00:55:10.410
Matt Nelson: Again, are just prioritizing the merge stuff and we don't want to mess, with the merge api's kind of in flight, because a lot of the roll ups are looking to take advantage of those merge API changes, and we have some PR is already around.

486
00:55:11.100 --> 00:55:13.590
Matt Nelson: You know roll up stuff like that so that's that's what we're looking at.

487
00:55:15.150 --> 00:55:22.200
Matt Nelson: But that the timeline is a little bit dependent upon final like you know the the merge API spec being completed, and all that stuff.

488
00:55:23.130 --> 00:55:27.330
Matt Nelson: In any changes that might come there between now and the end of the end of the the end of the year.

489
00:55:28.380 --> 00:55:32.190
Danno Ferrin: I have a lot of thoughts on this, but seven minutes is too short, so yeah Ping me later.

490
00:55:33.300 --> 00:55:33.750
All right.

491
00:55:37.440 --> 00:55:38.910
Grace Hartley: Well, I.

492
00:55:39.780 --> 00:55:40.950
Grace Hartley: Think we're an open forum.

493
00:55:41.880 --> 00:55:43.080
Gary Schulte: develops Countess made net.

494
00:55:46.590 --> 00:55:47.100
Sorry, what.

495
00:55:50.880 --> 00:55:51.480
Gary Schulte: Half joking.

496
00:55:52.650 --> 00:55:54.120
Gary Schulte: roll up work out this magnet.

497
00:55:54.660 --> 00:55:59.490
Danno Ferrin: i'm not certain, how much you joking on that because roll ups, is the official scalability planet seems.

498
00:56:00.600 --> 00:56:18.390
Danno Ferrin: charting and the bigger issues have to do with things like the sequencers and a special privilege access and it's layer two is a deep deep well I had some exposure to it, it read it and it's come a lot of sense i'm over the last six months since i've left to read it it's.

499
00:56:19.620 --> 00:56:27.330
Danno Ferrin: up and optimism arbitrage really you know switching around with Nigel completely rebooting everything they're doing it's it's a confusing space.

500
00:56:30.630 --> 00:56:38.490
Matt Nelson: yeah so definitely exploratory right now there's no reason to to go down these paths until I, we have a better understanding of what.

501
00:56:39.630 --> 00:56:45.600
Matt Nelson: is needed and what's like like I said it's merge merge safety is kind of the priority so we're not you know.

502
00:56:46.080 --> 00:56:51.210
Matt Nelson: they've there's already been expressed interest in altering some of those api's So the question is, what does that look like.

503
00:56:51.600 --> 00:57:01.770
Matt Nelson: Would we just we could could we create a new set of roll up specific api's and would that even be valuable so there's more exploration to be done there from you know customer and user perspective and.

504
00:57:03.540 --> 00:57:12.360
Matt Nelson: And you know, not a lot of time to do it right now so that's why it's tentatively, I would even say in the roadmap it's probably a little farther down than the next quarterly release but.

505
00:57:13.470 --> 00:57:15.810
Matt Nelson: just have to there's there's some moving pieces there.

506
00:57:22.860 --> 00:57:23.460
Grace Hartley: Already.

507
00:57:27.990 --> 00:57:28.680
Grace Hartley: open forum.

508
00:57:32.310 --> 00:57:36.090
Grace Hartley: Anything else anyone wants to bring up Diego had to leave.

509
00:57:39.300 --> 00:57:43.680
Grace Hartley: I believe we've done some some discord meetups correct me if i'm wrong.

510
00:57:47.460 --> 00:57:51.720
Grace Hartley: Anything else anyone wants to bring up or give everyone five minutes back four minutes.

511
00:57:59.910 --> 00:58:06.180
Grace Hartley: Alright i'm back I think there's a really productive appreciate everyone's time here we'll see you again soon.

512
00:58:07.170 --> 00:58:08.760
Karim T.: Thanks thanks.

513
00:58:09.480 --> 00:58:09.900
guys.

