WEBVTT

1
00:00:03.149 --> 00:00:08.639
Grace Hartley: housekeeping items, so this is the February 15 basic attributor call.

2
00:00:10.950 --> 00:00:15.719
Grace Hartley: i've dropped the link in the chat For those of you who would like to follow on.

3
00:00:16.890 --> 00:00:18.930
Grace Hartley: Thanks for everyone who contributed to the agenda.

4
00:00:21.330 --> 00:00:24.060
Grace Hartley: The housekeeping there's an address notice.

5
00:00:25.110 --> 00:00:38.010
Grace Hartley: follow that please this meeting is being recorded, please mute unless you're being a talking unless you're talking, of course, and then, if you have questions raising in feature that seems to work pretty well.

6
00:00:40.380 --> 00:00:43.590
Grace Hartley: I think that's it and then I think there's something about the code of conduct, please follow that.

7
00:00:47.970 --> 00:00:52.410
Grace Hartley: I think so just looking at, we have an hour together, so we have probably.

8
00:00:53.610 --> 00:00:54.420
Grace Hartley: A few.

9
00:00:55.530 --> 00:01:02.400
Grace Hartley: Few updates, I think, of course, will probably take most of the time on the incentive program updates, you know teams here.

10
00:01:03.780 --> 00:01:18.330
Grace Hartley: And we can talk about the latest version and feedback comments with the group I think i'm cautiously optimistic that maybe we'll have some time at the end to run through the rest of the items or i'd love to be you maybe 15 minutes at the end.

11
00:01:19.380 --> 00:01:30.570
Grace Hartley: To kind of talk about there's like a bunch of open forum items and release updates and I think just you know our regular business that we should probably try to get to as well, so maybe let's let's kind of time boxes for.

12
00:01:32.220 --> 00:01:33.570
Grace Hartley: Maximum 45 minutes which I.

13
00:01:33.570 --> 00:01:36.540
Grace Hartley: Think should be okay, but correct me if i'm wrong and then.

14
00:01:37.830 --> 00:01:42.600
Grace Hartley: Then kind of get out the rest of it that's all right, Daniel go ahead.

15
00:01:43.500 --> 00:01:56.220
Daniela Barbosa: Good morning, everyone and good afternoon just wanted to let everybody know that we we made an announcement yesterday or actually last week about our new hyper ledger foundation cto.

16
00:01:56.910 --> 00:02:02.460
Daniela Barbosa: In case you missed it we're very happy that hartman Curry who many of you have known.

17
00:02:02.970 --> 00:02:10.590
Daniela Barbosa: For many years he's been part of the hyper ledger community and part of the technical steering committee since the beginning, since 2016.

18
00:02:11.010 --> 00:02:18.120
Daniela Barbosa: So he's one of the original tasc Members who participated, so he officially starts tomorrow morning.

19
00:02:18.960 --> 00:02:28.140
Daniela Barbosa: Here at the Linux foundation as a Linux foundation employee and in his role of hyper ledger certified certified chief technology officer so.

20
00:02:28.650 --> 00:02:37.200
Daniela Barbosa: Congratulations to heart, I am so pleased that i'm going to have heart along me leading our Community, he has been briefed.

21
00:02:37.830 --> 00:02:54.360
Daniela Barbosa: You know from most of the you know, most of the client incentive program and is an additional resource for us so just wanted to let everybody know that heart is on the phone today and is representing the hyper ledger Foundation and the Linux foundation as an.

22
00:02:55.860 --> 00:02:56.490
Daniela Barbosa: Our cto.

23
00:02:59.640 --> 00:03:05.460
Daniela Barbosa: Not as a you know and not as a tlc Member or or as a contributor maintainer.

24
00:03:06.570 --> 00:03:08.370
Hart Montgomery: So thanks Daniela for the.

25
00:03:08.400 --> 00:03:09.240
Hart Montgomery: kind words and.

26
00:03:09.420 --> 00:03:10.410
Hart Montgomery: Thank you, everybody.

27
00:03:12.390 --> 00:03:16.020
Hart Montgomery: I have to drop off this call a couple minutes early, but I should be able to stay on for most of it.

28
00:03:19.110 --> 00:03:20.100
Grace Hartley: Oh well.

29
00:03:20.400 --> 00:03:26.580
Grace Hartley: congrats are happy to have you here was happy to have you here as a team Member, but even more happy to have you here as a cto.

30
00:03:28.110 --> 00:03:30.870
Grace Hartley: So congrats Sagan except for hyper ledger.

31
00:03:33.870 --> 00:03:43.140
Grace Hartley: cool, so the program so maybe, just a quick recap for everybody, because it's been a couple weeks and things seem to fire out quite a bit.

32
00:03:44.760 --> 00:03:48.390
Grace Hartley: So we reviewed the proposal number three at the last.

33
00:03:49.410 --> 00:03:55.350
Grace Hartley: incident last contributor call meeting, I think we generally agreed but there.

34
00:03:56.580 --> 00:04:05.910
Grace Hartley: And we can look at the notes from last time to kind of talk about that further, but I think we generally agreed on a lot of the High Level points like around the transaction fees are on the withdrawal keys.

35
00:04:07.320 --> 00:04:12.570
Grace Hartley: And, but the one open question that was kind of still a clear was like the different roles within.

36
00:04:14.460 --> 00:04:24.390
Grace Hartley: Within the basic Community and being and being able to participate in this incentive program so TIM kind of own that action item to kind of redo the.

37
00:04:25.890 --> 00:04:32.430
Grace Hartley: or add that in kind of talking about what are the different definitions of kind of who's eligible for what and.

38
00:04:32.880 --> 00:04:46.560
Grace Hartley: I tried to make that kind of clear in this version for so TIM doesn't make sense to maybe so i'll pause there, maybe hold on quick questions and then maybe i'll talk to this, but any initial questions or comments or anything else we should recap on.

39
00:04:51.660 --> 00:04:57.180
Grace Hartley: cool okay tim's floor is yours to kind of just walk through what you did, and how how you kind of come up with this.

40
00:04:58.320 --> 00:04:59.820
Grace Hartley: I think tearing system yeah.

41
00:05:00.150 --> 00:05:02.520
Tim Beiko: yeah do you mind if I share my screen, just so.

42
00:05:02.730 --> 00:05:10.590
Tim Beiko: Because i'm probably going to jump back and forth in the Doc I put the link, so the link is on hyper ledger wiki but then it's like a message link to my hacking the.

43
00:05:11.250 --> 00:05:18.270
Tim Beiko: documents that didn't have time to reformat so I posted that in the in the chat directly if people want to follow along.

44
00:05:18.900 --> 00:05:26.640
Tim Beiko: High Level yeah there's a couple kind of changes from like the proposal three and 3.5 I guess the way I went about.

45
00:05:26.910 --> 00:05:37.350
Tim Beiko: Making those changes is I spent a lot of the past few weeks, talking with the folks involved in this process, so I talked with folks that consensus folks that he left with no allies and and.

46
00:05:38.010 --> 00:05:44.370
Tim Beiko: trying to get to a spot and also sorry talk with some folks at the yes and and I think I tried to get to a spot where like we have something that.

47
00:05:44.700 --> 00:05:56.850
Tim Beiko: Generally fits with what people want is technically doable and and ideally is legally doable, which is the last kind of open question we have and I guess my goal with this proposal is to get kind of.

48
00:05:57.270 --> 00:06:12.540
Tim Beiko: conceptual agreement across the basic Community if this is something that like people are happy with, then the next step would be for us, and he left and consensus that just kind of send it to lawyers and draft like a more formal agreement.

49
00:06:13.860 --> 00:06:19.470
Tim Beiko: So yeah, and so this is basically you know kind of think of it as like a design Doc for the grant agreement.

50
00:06:20.340 --> 00:06:24.210
Tim Beiko: And in terms of the actual changes, based on the previous proposals.

51
00:06:25.050 --> 00:06:30.360
Tim Beiko: one kind of formatting thing is, I tried to like regroup all of the definitions together so that.

52
00:06:30.720 --> 00:06:35.910
Tim Beiko: I apologize it kind of changes the flow of the document a lot that means you have to reread the whole thing you can't just get a diff.

53
00:06:36.360 --> 00:06:50.310
Tim Beiko: But the goal is that, ideally, things are like only defined once, whereas the previous ones kind of had like double definitions for a bunch of stuff and that can get confusing, so I tried to kind of grouped together and like Ray said, I think the biggest.

54
00:06:52.170 --> 00:07:02.190
Tim Beiko: I don't know conceptual changes, just like delineating the different kind of levels of engagement of both individual contributors and organizations and then.

55
00:07:02.970 --> 00:07:09.420
Tim Beiko: Technically, this is something that came, you know with talking with the folks at the EFF who have a lot of experience running validators.

56
00:07:09.690 --> 00:07:15.930
Tim Beiko: And previous versions of the proposals have this idea where you would send transaction fees like prorated.

57
00:07:16.350 --> 00:07:22.680
Tim Beiko: To the different addresses for different validators and there's a lot of just like operational complexities to do that.

58
00:07:23.280 --> 00:07:29.940
Tim Beiko: it's probably much simpler to just have a smart contract on chain which, like splits funds and that's a pretty solved problem if you're just dealing with ease.

59
00:07:30.270 --> 00:07:40.770
Tim Beiko: And that gives the Nice property to like you can put specific percentages and specific addresses have a claim over that but you don't need to send funds back and forth between different organizations.

60
00:07:41.100 --> 00:07:49.590
Tim Beiko: And you only need when you update the kind of splitting contracts can update every single validator at once to the same address it's easy to check that you've done it right um.

61
00:07:50.370 --> 00:08:00.060
Tim Beiko: Because of that assuming we went to use a smart contract the you need kind of a distribution of addresses and their share of contributions.

62
00:08:00.960 --> 00:08:08.880
Tim Beiko: That sent to so that means you kind of need to look at the previous period, send the current periods rewards, so you kind of have a small offset there.

63
00:08:09.420 --> 00:08:23.760
Tim Beiko: um so that's just something to be mindful of um and then I would draw key distribution, basically, is kind of the part that's been a bit more explicit around the different kinds of types of contributors and.

64
00:08:25.410 --> 00:08:37.020
Tim Beiko: And yeah so so just just the first section with definition thanks a ton dunno for the main that development I think you've had like the best Chris definition of it and I already copied pasted it into this.

65
00:08:38.520 --> 00:08:53.310
Tim Beiko: The bet and I think this is like the most important part, so I tried to really delineate like what type of people or organizations involved in base, you would have access to what type of rewards from the Program.

66
00:08:54.390 --> 00:09:04.680
Tim Beiko: and a high level there's like four four buckets first you just have contributors So these are people who write code for basically they're not maintain errs and so these people basically don't get.

67
00:09:05.430 --> 00:09:09.390
Tim Beiko: a share of transaction fees validator rewards or withdrawal distributions.

68
00:09:09.900 --> 00:09:22.440
Tim Beiko: redraw distributions now they're just contribute and that's it if if basically has paid bounties and stuff like that, obviously, they can be eligible for those but they don't get like any funds flowing from the program directly Center them.

69
00:09:24.300 --> 00:09:34.050
Tim Beiko: Then the kind of next level is, you have a maintainer that's working on maintenance, so this is somebody who is listed as an active maintainer there's a list of active maintainer that's kind of base ooh and whose.

70
00:09:34.410 --> 00:09:48.510
Tim Beiko: whose work is focused on the theory of mine, and these individuals would be eligible for a share of the transaction fees and validator rewards and we have I haven't tried to change how that's distributed.

71
00:09:49.380 --> 00:09:55.110
Tim Beiko: Based on the past proposals but they're not eligible for redraw key distributions yet um.

72
00:09:55.980 --> 00:10:04.020
Tim Beiko: And you know the way I think you define the main that maintainer is somebody who has a piece of single substantial contribution to base you during a specific six months period.

73
00:10:04.740 --> 00:10:10.770
Tim Beiko: I gave some examples here, I think, at a high level what you want a substantial contribution to be is like either a whole new feature.

74
00:10:11.820 --> 00:10:14.280
Tim Beiko: Performance improvement, the security fix.

75
00:10:15.720 --> 00:10:26.250
Tim Beiko: I don't have a strong opinion on what's not a significant contributions but off the top of my head like it a single E IP that just change a gas costs or like a new json rpc API that's like it, you know.

76
00:10:26.850 --> 00:10:36.690
Tim Beiko: Very close to an existing one that seems not like substantial um, it is a fuzzy line to draw and I don't think I necessarily the best one but.

77
00:10:37.020 --> 00:10:45.750
Tim Beiko: um yeah I think at a high level if you've implemented like a large feature to be sued that's relevant to main that within a six month period, you should be eligible.

78
00:10:47.610 --> 00:10:49.710
Tim Beiko: The next step, for that is, I think.

79
00:10:50.100 --> 00:10:57.360
Justin Florentine: Basically, the caution on that real quick, just so we have our own definition of maintainer right now, as far as like rolling people in.

80
00:10:57.840 --> 00:11:02.130
Justin Florentine: yeah do you like us to improve that so it's more in line with this.

81
00:11:02.970 --> 00:11:03.240
Tim Beiko: No, no.

82
00:11:03.540 --> 00:11:07.860
Justin Florentine: Sorry kill two birds with one stone there if we were like Okay, you made maintainer so.

83
00:11:09.420 --> 00:11:09.810
Tim Beiko: You know.

84
00:11:09.900 --> 00:11:17.550
Tim Beiko: The challenge, though, is that none of the maintainer is on base, you might never work on maintenance right, and so I think you need this, like other filter.

85
00:11:18.570 --> 00:11:19.650
Tim Beiko: that's like a bit.

86
00:11:21.030 --> 00:11:24.870
Tim Beiko: This is, I guess the difference between like the basic project and the incentive.

87
00:11:24.870 --> 00:11:25.260
Justin Florentine: Right.

88
00:11:25.380 --> 00:11:34.050
Tim Beiko: Like if you have somebody you say i'm old my basic knowledge but works on like you know the privacy for like I think it's a Ryan.

89
00:11:34.650 --> 00:11:39.630
Justin Florentine: No, I understand that I was just I was more thinking with regard to quantity or size of the contribution as.

90
00:11:39.630 --> 00:11:43.050
Justin Florentine: opposed to the type, I think we have a pretty clear idea of what's made them what's not.

91
00:11:43.740 --> 00:11:52.890
Tim Beiko: Right right, and I think yeah if if you all want to come with like a better list than that, like I I just don't know how you.

92
00:11:54.840 --> 00:11:57.930
Tim Beiko: yeah yeah I think it's I think it's hard like, and I think.

93
00:11:58.710 --> 00:11:59.430
Justin Florentine: I good enough.

94
00:12:00.870 --> 00:12:06.060
Justin Florentine: Other question you know we mentioned six months here is that is that the is that the period that we're thinking of for the.

95
00:12:07.950 --> 00:12:08.550
Justin Florentine: accounting.

96
00:12:09.090 --> 00:12:19.440
Tim Beiko: So six months, the reason for that is the rewards will vest every six months right, and so I think it makes sense to update kind of to look at contributions on the same schedule.

97
00:12:19.560 --> 00:12:22.740
Tim Beiko: it's like ever that's like a vesting period basically um.

98
00:12:22.800 --> 00:12:24.150
Justin Florentine: Yes, yeah yeah.

99
00:12:26.160 --> 00:12:39.480
Tim Beiko: And I think okay so, so this is basically for transaction fees validator rewards and I think, then, the question is like who gets access to the withdrawal credentials and actually talking with like a bunch of different people, it seems like.

100
00:12:41.130 --> 00:12:49.680
Tim Beiko: This is what's at the highest risk of being very contentious and I think this is probably where it makes sense for the ef to like draw the line.

101
00:12:50.070 --> 00:13:02.310
Tim Beiko: And I have some some criteria below, but at a high level how it would work is if you're already a main method maintainer and you'd like to like get access to the the rewards the next step is you basically.

102
00:13:02.760 --> 00:13:07.950
Tim Beiko: become like a patron maintainer or a pm, which I know is like a terrible acronym but bear with me.

103
00:13:09.900 --> 00:13:19.170
Tim Beiko: Once and then yes basically makes a call on Twitter just maintainer can become a patron maintainer if you are a patient maintainer.

104
00:13:19.620 --> 00:13:24.060
Tim Beiko: During the first like vesting period, so the first six months that's your one on.

105
00:13:24.930 --> 00:13:35.550
Tim Beiko: Your you vest which all keys, but those go to he left and then, if you want your organization, so your employer to have access to withdraw keys, you would become a patron organization.

106
00:13:35.790 --> 00:13:43.440
Tim Beiko: Again, that ef makes a call and then from that point you start investing withdrawal keys directly to your organization and.

107
00:13:44.490 --> 00:13:51.630
Tim Beiko: One thing that's nice with this is that it doesn't do any kind of like back waiting of all the contributions, it just looks at every single period.

108
00:13:52.380 --> 00:14:05.100
Tim Beiko: That said, one thing I think we wanted in the program is also the reward to some extent, that the the organizations that have been supporting clients, for a long time, so the sort of compromise, there would be that the first period of.

109
00:14:05.460 --> 00:14:12.870
Tim Beiko: Which all credentials, you only have consensus and hyper ledger foundation, who are patron organizations and then you can start adding some after that.

110
00:14:15.000 --> 00:14:22.830
Tim Beiko: And i'll just scroll right down to like roughly the criteria that you know I think we we we want to have.

111
00:14:24.750 --> 00:14:33.030
Tim Beiko: To kind of move containers to picture and maintain errs and organizations that patient organizations and again this Daniel thanks for the help here.

112
00:14:34.590 --> 00:14:37.560
Tim Beiko: First it's just like you know how much and how baby.

113
00:14:38.430 --> 00:14:45.000
Tim Beiko: Have like was the quantity and the impact of the contributions that, like the the maintainer and the org have done towards base you.

114
00:14:45.360 --> 00:14:53.550
Tim Beiko: And I think they're you know we'd like to see several kind of large features set you know the ips have implemented across several network upgrades.

115
00:14:54.390 --> 00:15:01.320
Tim Beiko: Consensus critical fixes like really you know these people and these organizations have like contributed significantly to base you.

116
00:15:02.070 --> 00:15:07.680
Tim Beiko: I think the other thing, this is a bit more like a soft or like a fuzzy requirement, but like.

117
00:15:08.280 --> 00:15:20.280
Tim Beiko: engaging with like the broader theme of my neck Community beyond just like the basic Community itself, and this isn't like doesn't need to be huge, but you know, being in the ether and discord showing up on awkward dabs from time to time.

118
00:15:21.450 --> 00:15:30.600
Tim Beiko: No way you know, like being involved in ei P discussions that are relevant to you like we don't expect people to be engaged in every single issue all the time, but like.

119
00:15:31.560 --> 00:15:37.380
Tim Beiko: You should have shown up and like generally be aware of what's happening, the broader community.

120
00:15:38.250 --> 00:15:48.660
Tim Beiko: And I think the other thing that we'd like to see, and this is more like the organization level than like an individual, but like basically being proactive around improving the three main that's beyond just like writing code.

121
00:15:49.080 --> 00:15:56.010
Tim Beiko: for supporting base you and again this is something that you know, like I think organizations have in the past, whether this is like.

122
00:15:56.460 --> 00:16:06.000
Tim Beiko: Checking the IP working on an R amp D efforts helping just with testing infrastructure with performance optimizations things like go a bit beyond just like.

123
00:16:07.020 --> 00:16:11.010
Tim Beiko: Supporting magnet than being able to sync them enough and.

124
00:16:11.910 --> 00:16:22.740
Tim Beiko: And then, a high level how this works is you know, once a if you have a main that maintainer they want to become a patron maintainer and you just ask the E, F, which for now would be me and we make a call on that.

125
00:16:23.520 --> 00:16:33.000
Tim Beiko: And then, assuming that like you want to also have your become a patron organization then same thing you just reach out, can we make a call on that as well.

126
00:16:34.890 --> 00:16:40.740
Tim Beiko: i'll pause here and I feel this is like the biggest chunk of it and any questions comments.

127
00:16:49.500 --> 00:16:49.800
Tim Beiko: Okay.

128
00:16:50.490 --> 00:16:53.190
Grace Hartley: i'm so sorry I didn't raise my hand and the words of.

129
00:16:54.300 --> 00:16:59.490
Grace Hartley: The and just be clear, like, I think you said this, but just want to restate this to make sure i'm.

130
00:17:00.660 --> 00:17:03.210
Grace Hartley: patron eligibility is solely decided by the.

131
00:17:04.110 --> 00:17:06.960
Tim Beiko: Yes, and I think this is just a.

132
00:17:07.350 --> 00:17:07.980
Grace Hartley: maintainer and.

133
00:17:08.160 --> 00:17:09.600
Tim Beiko: i'm not sure who told this to be.

134
00:17:09.810 --> 00:17:15.930
Tim Beiko: Probably a lot of people have but like this is so that, like the basic computer calls don't end up being like people arguing.

135
00:17:15.930 --> 00:17:17.310
Tim Beiko: about who should be a patron.

136
00:17:17.670 --> 00:17:28.530
Tim Beiko: Every two weeks, and I think you know we we want to see base you succeed like we we do want to exercise judgment here, but like we're more than happy.

137
00:17:28.980 --> 00:17:38.490
Tim Beiko: Like if you come and you ask us like what do you want to see you know i'm more than happy to like tell you and I kind of highlight you know the the gap between like.

138
00:17:38.850 --> 00:17:45.330
Tim Beiko: You know the contributions today and, like what we'd like to see and and yeah so I yeah I.

139
00:17:45.930 --> 00:17:57.840
Tim Beiko: You know, we want to help basically succeed here we don't our goal is not to like block everyone from from ever being a patron, but we do want you know it to be like the highest quality maintain errs and organizations and.

140
00:17:59.100 --> 00:18:00.810
Tim Beiko: And I think that's probably just mentioned.

141
00:18:01.200 --> 00:18:02.250
Tim Beiko: It makes.

142
00:18:04.500 --> 00:18:20.790
Grace Hartley: It that makes sense and once I think one thing, just to comment feedback I like about this is that there's kind of a tearing to it, so you know it, you know you become a minute maintainer you become eligible like there's kind of like little benchmarks for everything which I.

143
00:18:20.790 --> 00:18:21.330
Grace Hartley: Think is kind.

144
00:18:22.170 --> 00:18:37.950
Grace Hartley: Of like you know, once you can become a contributor get started, become a regular maintainer because you've hit your goal, what is it three or five commits Members are guys and then the next level is I mean that maintainer, and that makes you eligible for transaction.

145
00:18:38.970 --> 00:18:52.110
Grace Hartley: fees and then, if you get the next benchmark you become a patron maintainer and then like ultimate his organization, where there are multiple patriot, he maintains, which I guess I like that it's kind of a tiered reward system.

146
00:18:53.310 --> 00:18:56.610
Grace Hartley: And you kind of like it's a clear path, hopefully for.

147
00:18:58.200 --> 00:19:05.430
Grace Hartley: contributors are kind of here's where you kind of can see yourselves and how you continue to like work up in and get there, so just.

148
00:19:06.090 --> 00:19:06.270
Right.

149
00:19:08.070 --> 00:19:09.750
Tim Beiko: yeah and I think it does make like a.

150
00:19:09.750 --> 00:19:12.450
Tim Beiko: cure actually are kind of gap between them um.

151
00:19:14.850 --> 00:19:20.220
Tim Beiko: So I guess yeah it sort of maybe going just quickly over to two other kind of changes.

152
00:19:22.860 --> 00:19:37.620
Tim Beiko: So transaction fees I didn't change anything except the idea of the ascending the Feast of a smart contract and the main The main reason there is it's just like technologically simpler and also from an accounting perspective.

153
00:19:38.670 --> 00:19:48.240
Tim Beiko: I don't have a strong opinion on the contracts like i've used mirror splits in the past and it's worked well and it's it's optimized only for each but the way it works is it.

154
00:19:49.500 --> 00:19:55.920
Tim Beiko: And there's a ui for it, which is, which is helpful if it's somebody like me or grace that needs to set it up and not.

155
00:19:56.940 --> 00:19:57.240
Tim Beiko: yeah.

156
00:20:00.060 --> 00:20:03.390
Tim Beiko: it's not loading okay yeah so basically how this works is like.

157
00:20:03.960 --> 00:20:10.650
Tim Beiko: You know you set up, however many recipients you want each recipient has a claim over all the email that sent into the split.

158
00:20:10.920 --> 00:20:18.900
Tim Beiko: And so very high level, you know we can say 20% goes to the node operators 20% goes to the hyper ledger pool, so you just have their two addresses with 20%.

159
00:20:19.350 --> 00:20:27.480
Tim Beiko: And then, at the end of a period we look at this main that maintainer pool and you just have a list of address for either organizations or individuals and you also add those.

160
00:20:28.020 --> 00:20:38.190
Tim Beiko: And this means that, like all the validators with with us this this split contract, as the address two words which they sent transaction fees and then.

161
00:20:38.790 --> 00:20:45.510
Tim Beiko: The transaction fees just sit there until somebody who owns like one of the addresses claims them.

162
00:20:46.230 --> 00:20:53.670
Tim Beiko: And the caveat is you obviously don't want to lose your key to the address you've put there but that's true of any transaction fee address.

163
00:20:54.270 --> 00:21:01.170
Tim Beiko: And then these contracts cost like a little bit deployed you're not super expensive, but basically every six months, you would need to deploy a new one.

164
00:21:02.610 --> 00:21:10.770
Tim Beiko: And you can use basically you know fees from like either to hyper ledger pool or somewhere else, if you want to your mark for that to just pay for the gas to deploy.

165
00:21:12.600 --> 00:21:24.030
Tim Beiko: There might be others within contracts like again I, this is just the one i've i've used in the past, and like I know has been like audited and and and also use like it in a lot of projects.

166
00:21:25.230 --> 00:21:37.020
Tim Beiko: But generally this simplifies and it also removes the need for like if if say consensus is validators got way more transaction fees than the one pointing toward hyper ledger because they just got all the blocks.

167
00:21:37.320 --> 00:21:40.860
Tim Beiko: Then they would have needed to like send funds over so This removes the need for that.

168
00:21:44.460 --> 00:21:46.110
Tim Beiko: And I see this coming from the chat.

169
00:21:54.030 --> 00:22:02.370
Tim Beiko: Right yeah so we want to be a bit mindful about the one we actually deploy this contract and and not pay super high fees if there's an nfc gas or going on.

170
00:22:03.570 --> 00:22:03.930
Tim Beiko: um.

171
00:22:05.730 --> 00:22:16.890
Tim Beiko: And then, so this is like I guess they're like most complicated section like I invite people to actually read this I rather than just listen to be chatting but like high level, I tried to map the model like.

172
00:22:17.340 --> 00:22:27.150
Tim Beiko: What would withdraw the distributions look like in a you know, in a scenario where you have a bunch of other patrons joining your with time.

173
00:22:27.870 --> 00:22:40.770
Tim Beiko: Who gets what i'm basically the two I guess important things, there is one, you only look at like a single period, so you don't like look at all of the historical contributions which kind of.

174
00:22:41.790 --> 00:22:46.740
Tim Beiko: Wood yeah which makes it, you know kind of reset every time the one caveat is.

175
00:22:47.490 --> 00:22:55.620
Tim Beiko: The amount of withdrawal keys might not map directly to like the perfect split of contributions right before giving out 1414 withdrawal keys.

176
00:22:55.980 --> 00:23:00.330
Tim Beiko: In my article great, so I think what you want is you want to keep like a running tally of like.

177
00:23:00.750 --> 00:23:14.550
Tim Beiko: How much keys what shared keys with people had to it was a perfect Smith and Mike which is they actually get and when we get the spots were like it doesn't line up perfectly we just kind of top up the organization that's far behind what their fair share should have been.

178
00:23:15.870 --> 00:23:25.860
Tim Beiko: And so again here's like a scenario, but you can see, after like four periods after four rounds of keys vesting everybody's within like 3% of what they should have gotten.

179
00:23:26.580 --> 00:23:33.870
Tim Beiko: So it's it gets pretty close over time and I think if we got the like the last period and there was like a large discrepancy, you can.

180
00:23:34.320 --> 00:23:42.030
Tim Beiko: then choose to like liquidate one or two validators and just you know send the eat for them proportionally, so I think you know it.

181
00:23:42.720 --> 00:23:51.840
Tim Beiko: In like a six month period there might be times, where like you know some Organization has less withdrawal keys than than the than the they would in somehow a bit more.

182
00:23:52.920 --> 00:23:57.510
Tim Beiko: But like, if you look over like yeah three or four period that tends to even out pretty quickly and.

183
00:23:58.200 --> 00:24:04.560
Tim Beiko: So, again I I like this spreadsheet there's a whole explanation that kind of walks through what's actually happening.

184
00:24:05.460 --> 00:24:17.190
Tim Beiko: Dental cells just show who's a patron organization when red cells show that you've had two little keys relative to your contributions and green shows green cells shown if you had too much.

185
00:24:20.010 --> 00:24:28.410
Tim Beiko: And okay sorry and this again was in the in the previous one, but also worth noting, is just that if you liquidate you basically give up your rights to.

186
00:24:29.190 --> 00:24:36.120
Tim Beiko: The main net maintainer pool, so the proportional to how much you liquidated liquidate 100% of your validators you can obviously get.

187
00:24:36.510 --> 00:24:39.840
Tim Beiko: a share of the transaction fees from everybody else's validators and.

188
00:24:40.470 --> 00:24:54.030
Tim Beiko: And if you do liquidated validator we expect you to send all the transaction fees that you've accrued before to liquidation to basically the transaction for you distribution contract, so you can't just like run away with the fees, and this is iniquity.

189
00:24:57.570 --> 00:24:59.370
Tim Beiko: And that's pretty much it um.

190
00:25:00.780 --> 00:25:12.270
Tim Beiko: I guess like I said at the beginning, you know it would be helpful to know if there's any like strong objections to this from anybody just and if not, I think the next step would be for like.

191
00:25:12.840 --> 00:25:24.750
Tim Beiko: He left consensus and the ef disliked working on on just drafting a formal agreement and and and yeah kind of getting getting this getting this done um.

192
00:25:26.400 --> 00:25:27.240
Tim Beiko: yeah i'll pause here.

193
00:25:31.470 --> 00:25:33.450
Justin Florentine: yeah i've only had a couple days to.

194
00:25:33.480 --> 00:25:38.520
Justin Florentine: Look at this, but so far, so good, I appreciate the progress, I definitely see a lot of progress here.

195
00:25:39.690 --> 00:25:49.290
Justin Florentine: So it's it's it's looking good I I wouldn't say that I have any objections to it right now i'd like a couple more days to sit on it, but I don't expect to have any.

196
00:25:56.250 --> 00:26:07.680
Tim Beiko: cool yeah and I totally yeah totally appreciate that, like I dumped this I think yesterday or Friday I don't forget but yeah very late, and it is a 2000 word document so yes.

197
00:26:09.390 --> 00:26:09.990
Tim Beiko: I hope.

198
00:26:12.420 --> 00:26:22.170
Hart Montgomery: I tell me I thanks for writing this up and making all that it's as a covenant and chat I really like the way that you wrote this so that it seems to incentivize more contributions.

199
00:26:23.430 --> 00:26:26.850
Hart Montgomery: which I assumed should be the goal of the program anyway.

200
00:26:28.890 --> 00:26:31.800
Hart Montgomery: So, so thank you for as justin.

201
00:26:32.940 --> 00:26:35.880
Hart Montgomery: pointed out driving the document forward.

202
00:26:37.290 --> 00:26:37.800
Tim Beiko: Of course yeah.

203
00:26:39.180 --> 00:26:51.090
Tim Beiko: yeah I mean Thank you like, I know it's been a process to get here and it didn't start off in the best way like I really appreciate everybody's time and efforts to get this response, where it's it's much, much better.

204
00:27:00.630 --> 00:27:09.810
Tim Beiko: cool yeah i'm happy to not hung up your entire contributor call once more, and they let you get back to our regularly scheduled topics if.

205
00:27:11.280 --> 00:27:12.060
Grace Hartley: there's nothing else.

206
00:27:16.320 --> 00:27:17.310
Grace Hartley: So just maybe to.

207
00:27:18.870 --> 00:27:20.640
Grace Hartley: round this out is this final.

208
00:27:21.690 --> 00:27:23.160
Grace Hartley: Do we say.

209
00:27:26.700 --> 00:27:37.440
Grace Hartley: If there are no objections, or disagreements by let's say into day Friday, this is the final proposal or any questions, just because justin's right like let's get let's give the broader group I know not everyone is on this call.

210
00:27:38.520 --> 00:27:41.700
Grace Hartley: Until the end of the week, but if there are no items raised.

211
00:27:44.340 --> 00:27:52.890
Grace Hartley: You know I know yeah whatever substantial disagreements or comments, this is the final version with with the caveat that.

212
00:27:54.000 --> 00:27:56.580
Grace Hartley: We go parties need to review in detail.

213
00:27:57.900 --> 00:28:00.630
Grace Hartley: On the consensus side we've done an initial review.

214
00:28:02.010 --> 00:28:04.260
Grace Hartley: But there will, as we said last time.

215
00:28:04.770 --> 00:28:06.000
Grace Hartley: The plan is to have.

216
00:28:07.470 --> 00:28:25.950
Grace Hartley: You know if there are any changes that are substantial, we will like obviously show the final agreements with this group, but we'll try to keep that process as transparent as possible if if there is a red flag or something that's needs to be changed, based on legal or financial requirements.

217
00:28:31.530 --> 00:28:37.980
Hart Montgomery: Or we happy with the maintainer definitions, I know, there was some discussion about that.

218
00:28:50.400 --> 00:28:52.140
Danno Ferrin: I can't raise hand when i'm sharing screen.

219
00:28:54.300 --> 00:29:05.640
Danno Ferrin: So that's like a deeper discussion of if we want to review maintenance in general, but just there's a difference between a main that maintainer and and Amina maintainer in this documentation that could be worth pulling out but.

220
00:29:06.120 --> 00:29:13.290
Danno Ferrin: to become a man that meeting we had to become a base to maintainer and I think the definition of main that excluded things like a theorem classic.

221
00:29:13.830 --> 00:29:30.540
Danno Ferrin: kp FT corn compatibility non mean that consensus algorithms that's your primary line of work, so that you know that that could be cleaned up, but I think the substance of contribution definition is going to keep us in line separate.

222
00:29:30.570 --> 00:29:31.290
Tim Beiko: Of what.

223
00:29:31.440 --> 00:29:35.520
Danno Ferrin: is going on with them the base EU and hyper ledger definitional maintainer.

224
00:29:37.230 --> 00:29:40.530
Hart Montgomery: Great and who's making the decision on who is made that.

225
00:29:40.560 --> 00:29:41.520
retainer or not.

226
00:29:46.140 --> 00:29:46.440
Grace Hartley: Go ahead.

227
00:29:48.600 --> 00:30:04.470
Tim Beiko: Sorry, so I guess person that knows points, one thing I would probably highlight, is it feels to me like it's more fluid like like I think we talked about diego's contribution on the last call so i'll use him as an example, again, but say gigolos main job is like working on there and plastic.

228
00:30:05.640 --> 00:30:14.430
Tim Beiko: doesn't usually involve making that but it in a period, he does fix a long for Jay issued that's like a security vulnerability and if you remain that as well.

229
00:30:15.120 --> 00:30:22.080
Tim Beiko: I personally feel during that period, he should be he should kind of count doesn't mean that the maintainer and it's fine if then he just goes back and.

230
00:30:22.560 --> 00:30:24.660
Tim Beiko: Only works on a theorem classic and never does that mean that.

231
00:30:25.080 --> 00:30:37.680
Tim Beiko: thing again it's like, so I think it's like a bit more fluid like I could see somebody coming in, for just a period and they don't necessarily do it again Another example is i've been talking with rye who's I believe still maintainer.

232
00:30:38.370 --> 00:30:40.470
Tim Beiko: he's working on an e IP and.

233
00:30:41.340 --> 00:30:49.050
Tim Beiko: If he came back you know, once he once he's like we're ready to implement the VIP a nice actually implemented it and bases and whatnot like.

234
00:30:49.230 --> 00:31:04.500
Tim Beiko: I again, I would have no problem for him being amended maintainer for a period and then just leave it and never contributing again and and like that's fine like so I yeah so so I, whereas like it kind of a basement Pandora feels like a strong binary right like when.

235
00:31:05.910 --> 00:31:10.680
Tim Beiko: you're like one or, then you leave and it's kind of hard to even come back, so I think that's a bit more fluid.

236
00:31:11.880 --> 00:31:15.960
Tim Beiko: With regards to your question hard like I would hope that the base you.

237
00:31:17.070 --> 00:31:31.290
Tim Beiko: Community itself can kind of come to consensus on a user may not maintain or not, I think if if there's cases where that's not possible yeah and he left basically need to make that call.

238
00:31:33.000 --> 00:31:41.880
Tim Beiko: But, ideally, in the very large majority, it would just come from like the base ooh community and.

239
00:31:43.200 --> 00:31:43.440
Grace Hartley: yeah.

240
00:31:54.330 --> 00:31:54.960
Grace Hartley: Alright, go ahead, you.

241
00:31:55.770 --> 00:31:57.150
Hart Montgomery: know your first grace actually.

242
00:32:00.450 --> 00:32:01.200
Grace Hartley: um.

243
00:32:01.920 --> 00:32:13.260
Grace Hartley: I actually don't know if I think the main it maintain or any of these definitions outside of active maintainer, which is the hyper ledger and the basic Community I don't I think.

244
00:32:14.490 --> 00:32:16.050
Grace Hartley: Any of these that map.

245
00:32:18.330 --> 00:32:24.420
Grace Hartley: For eligibility into the client program I think should be decided by the EFF.

246
00:32:25.500 --> 00:32:30.600
Grace Hartley: Just to take it out of the like, because we will spend so much time.

247
00:32:31.770 --> 00:32:35.310
Grace Hartley: In our contributor calls like being like does this Gal is this right.

248
00:32:35.460 --> 00:32:42.990
Grace Hartley: Is this is this enough like I think anything that makes you eligible for the the clients incentive program should should be.

249
00:32:44.820 --> 00:32:49.350
Grace Hartley: It should be easy it shouldn't like an invite I just don't want it, I think it'll just.

250
00:32:50.760 --> 00:32:51.480
Grace Hartley: Be too.

251
00:32:53.880 --> 00:32:54.270
Hart Montgomery: yeah.

252
00:32:55.200 --> 00:32:57.120
Hart Montgomery: I agree with grace here because.

253
00:32:57.210 --> 00:32:58.020
Hart Montgomery: I mean so.

254
00:32:59.580 --> 00:33:07.110
Hart Montgomery: So I don't know if you all know, Mike dolan from the Linux foundation, but he has a number of cautionary tales, where people.

255
00:33:07.950 --> 00:33:16.380
Hart Montgomery: gave money to projects and told the the project maintainer contributors, or whatever to split it up by themselves.

256
00:33:16.920 --> 00:33:32.310
Hart Montgomery: And this resulted in essentially the project actually functioning much worse with money than without because people spent the whole time like bickering about who should be awarded for what contributions, rather than actually getting work done.

257
00:33:34.650 --> 00:33:37.980
Hart Montgomery: So if there corner cases.

258
00:33:39.210 --> 00:33:48.180
Hart Montgomery: Like there are some things that are going to be very easy to decide, but if there are corner cases, ideally, it could be the F that could decide.

259
00:33:49.620 --> 00:33:59.520
Hart Montgomery: You know it's your money and we don't want to the real thing is, we don't want the communities to spend time arguing over compensation.

260
00:34:00.780 --> 00:34:03.210
Hart Montgomery: Rather than like thinking about the code.

261
00:34:05.610 --> 00:34:07.290
Tim Beiko: I think that's a reasonable ask.

262
00:34:07.380 --> 00:34:10.200
Tim Beiko: I I just need to double check.

263
00:34:10.860 --> 00:34:14.310
Tim Beiko: Internally, if that's if that's an issue and.

264
00:34:15.360 --> 00:34:16.860
Tim Beiko: hope that it was your hand raised.

265
00:34:19.710 --> 00:34:25.800
Danno Ferrin: So I think one of the things to point out is that for the for the withdrawal keys, a lot of is defined on going to the employer.

266
00:34:27.360 --> 00:34:32.580
Danno Ferrin: So the patron organizations, I think that's getting one distinction from typical projects that just to save money.

267
00:34:32.970 --> 00:34:43.500
Danno Ferrin: Is it's it's implied the year your employer is going to be the one receiving and then deciding at that point whether backfill is your salary or whether they send the team to Disneyland and that's completely outside of the discretion of the Program.

268
00:34:48.600 --> 00:34:51.150
Tim Beiko: Right, like, I think, in general, we would probably the default.

269
00:34:51.210 --> 00:34:51.690
to that.

270
00:34:53.520 --> 00:35:05.610
Tim Beiko: Like if if somebody even like from a net maintainer is like yeah if you're employed by like an org that's part of hyper ledger will like default setting up your Oregon then if you're not we'll we'll send it to you.

271
00:35:15.210 --> 00:35:16.500
Justin Florentine: yeah, are there any like.

272
00:35:16.650 --> 00:35:17.910
Justin Florentine: Just thinking this through.

273
00:35:18.000 --> 00:35:23.760
Justin Florentine: From an individual contributor, then the split goes to my cut of the split.

274
00:35:25.110 --> 00:35:25.620
Justin Florentine: huh.

275
00:35:26.730 --> 00:35:28.380
Justin Florentine: Never mind, let me think this through for ask.

276
00:35:39.660 --> 00:35:41.640
Justin Florentine: Please, please continue don't wait for me to figure it out.

277
00:35:45.570 --> 00:35:47.610
Gary Schulte: haven't had a lot of time to look at the dock.

278
00:35:47.790 --> 00:35:50.190
Gary Schulte: To be honest, i'm kind of skimmed it a bit, but.

279
00:35:51.360 --> 00:35:56.070
Gary Schulte: Is all are all of these splits going to be via an organization or is a.

280
00:35:57.810 --> 00:36:01.560
Gary Schulte: Are unaffiliated contributors, going to be able to participate.

281
00:36:03.600 --> 00:36:10.200
Tim Beiko: I yeah so for transaction fees absolutely i'm like if again i'll take rise and example.

282
00:36:11.370 --> 00:36:22.020
Tim Beiko: Might telegram chat but like if right it comes in implements like this history expiry VIP and says, this is my address you know for the next period.

283
00:36:22.440 --> 00:36:33.300
Tim Beiko: I I think that's totally fine I think for withdrawal credentials is a is it's much, much easier if there is an organization.

284
00:36:34.230 --> 00:36:50.970
Tim Beiko: For a bunch of reasons, but like if again let's take rye, as an example right comes back he wants to set up like a one man shop to be like a full time contributor at the base Sue and like hire somebody that worked with him on that and it's you know right Inc and you know I.

285
00:36:52.350 --> 00:36:54.510
Tim Beiko: I wouldn't want like I don't want to place like an.

286
00:36:55.770 --> 00:37:06.960
Tim Beiko: Administrative overhead you know, on on them if they're doing the good work getting access to the funds but they I suspect it would just probably be easier to be you know incorporated in one way or another.

287
00:37:08.940 --> 00:37:09.660
Tim Beiko: Does that make sense.

288
00:37:11.910 --> 00:37:12.750
Gary Schulte: I really mean.

289
00:37:14.580 --> 00:37:25.920
Tim Beiko: So yeah I guess it's just um if you're just getting the transaction fees or validator rewards there's no need to be an organization a mess and uh.

290
00:37:26.340 --> 00:37:27.270
Tim Beiko: Oh yes, are you something.

291
00:37:27.660 --> 00:37:30.450
Tim Beiko: Right Jones from its racer yeah.

292
00:37:30.990 --> 00:37:32.250
Gary Schulte: yeah yeah right, sir.

293
00:37:33.840 --> 00:37:36.450
Tim Beiko: If you just get you here, to have an organization.

294
00:37:36.810 --> 00:37:45.210
Gary Schulte: like an umbrella organization that would be responsible for distributing the more difficult to split things cuz transaction fees are simple.

295
00:37:45.870 --> 00:37:52.590
Gary Schulte: But the more difficult to split stuff it seems like you would need to have some umbrella organization that would it would manage this sort of splits.

296
00:37:53.220 --> 00:37:55.740
Tim Beiko: What is the more difficult things to split.

297
00:37:56.010 --> 00:38:02.100
Gary Schulte: Like withdrawals or however that ends up working out for a non org contributor right.

298
00:38:02.310 --> 00:38:10.050
Tim Beiko: yeah so that's that's kind of why i'm saying yeah yeah so transaction fees are easy right you send them to a split contract anybody can put an address in it and they can withdraw on their end.

299
00:38:10.440 --> 00:38:15.960
Tim Beiko: And there's a there's like a legal question there about like who owns this contract, but it's not like rocket science.

300
00:38:16.920 --> 00:38:26.550
Tim Beiko: Withdrawal credentials are a bit harder for that, because we do want to have like the E, F will want an agreement with every one of these like patron organizations and so.

301
00:38:27.630 --> 00:38:37.860
Tim Beiko: Again, like we can make agreements with individuals it's probably just easier if there's some sort of incorporated entity but like if that's your problem, like.

302
00:38:38.940 --> 00:38:44.640
Tim Beiko: that's not like an unsolvable problem like and i'll be happy to personally work with you too.

303
00:38:45.840 --> 00:38:49.200
Gary Schulte: yeah, that is, is the ef willing to.

304
00:38:50.400 --> 00:39:02.430
Gary Schulte: kind of become entangled in the governance over this is that something that you have it will make a long term commitment to for talking about having enough decide what is and what isn't a substantive contribution.

305
00:39:03.900 --> 00:39:12.120
Tim Beiko: That so at the withdrawal at the withdrawal key level, yes, at the transaction level is that they do need to double check and that's kind of my.

306
00:39:12.600 --> 00:39:26.220
Tim Beiko: yeah just my fear is like you know, can we commit to this for years, like definitely for like patron organizations and withdraw credentials, yes, of course, but for transaction fees that's yeah that's just the thing I need to double check.

307
00:39:30.570 --> 00:39:30.810
cool.

308
00:39:38.430 --> 00:39:39.570
Grace Hartley: So, I guess, my question is.

309
00:39:41.310 --> 00:39:44.910
Grace Hartley: I raised my hand here with their hand up is.

310
00:39:47.220 --> 00:39:51.270
Grace Hartley: It seems like I think there's only I don't think there any objections, I just want to.

311
00:39:52.500 --> 00:40:08.850
Grace Hartley: yeah just want to be mindful of our time box here, I think it sounds like these aren't objections one question, but I think it's clear that a patron maintainer needs to be part of an organization for them to be eligible for the withdrawal key and that's up to you have to decide.

312
00:40:10.680 --> 00:40:11.280
Grace Hartley: Then.

313
00:40:13.650 --> 00:40:18.690
Grace Hartley: We try that transaction fees is a little simpler for individual contributions, is there any.

314
00:40:21.090 --> 00:40:32.220
Grace Hartley: I think the only issue or item that I don't know if we've agreed upon, yet, and thank you again for taking notes is the have we agree that the ef should start in the decision of what is may net.

315
00:40:33.570 --> 00:40:37.950
Grace Hartley: maintainer or what is eligibility to be a part of the groups within.

316
00:40:40.860 --> 00:40:41.430
Grace Hartley: Within the client.

317
00:40:41.460 --> 00:40:42.210
Grace Hartley: incentive Program.

318
00:40:47.970 --> 00:40:52.740
Grace Hartley: Do we generally agree that the ef should be the the one making that decision.

319
00:40:54.180 --> 00:40:55.500
Grace Hartley: or only say this one, I would disagree.

320
00:40:57.450 --> 00:41:02.070
Danno Ferrin: They make the final call for sure it's a question of how involved, we are before he gets involved, I think.

321
00:41:03.090 --> 00:41:12.420
Danno Ferrin: And whether we should just do a proposal and time box it and let him do it, whether we should fight it out, or whether we should just let him start from the beginning, I mean those are really the three options.

322
00:41:13.890 --> 00:41:14.940
Tim Beiko: yeah I would rather.

323
00:41:17.370 --> 00:41:25.620
Tim Beiko: I would rather not have to proactively do it, and the reason is just because otherwise I feel like I might forget.

324
00:41:26.310 --> 00:41:38.940
Tim Beiko: I I totally see the argument for like you don't want to spend time arguing about this and i'm happy to check whether the ef Hutton can help there but, like, for example, if you, you know if you sent me a list of like.

325
00:41:39.390 --> 00:41:46.290
Tim Beiko: 15 people like there, and like you know 13 out of the 15 are just like a green.

326
00:41:47.040 --> 00:42:00.270
Tim Beiko: Like thumbs up like they're good and then there's two that like you're not sure, and you have links to their to PRS or whatever like I think that's kind of the best format from the US perspective is like we could just look at that then like make a call.

327
00:42:01.830 --> 00:42:09.810
Tim Beiko: Like if, for example, i'll take you then you know if you've been working on me, nothing like you're still working on main that that, like everybody agrees you're still working on man that's like.

328
00:42:10.320 --> 00:42:16.650
Tim Beiko: I would rather not have to like review that every time until there's like a contentious decision or something.

329
00:42:21.210 --> 00:42:32.100
Grace Hartley: I think you're not again we're at a time i'm not sure i'm totally aligned effect, but I will follow up and send some notes back to the group and I liked how you kind of outline the three options.

330
00:42:33.150 --> 00:42:38.220
Grace Hartley: But I will take that away to kind of make sure we get an answer on this in the next couple of days.

331
00:42:39.630 --> 00:42:43.230
Grace Hartley: So we're we're getting closer because yeah i'm not i'm not totally light.

332
00:42:45.180 --> 00:42:48.750
Grace Hartley: Okay, so with that that's the one outstanding item.

333
00:42:50.550 --> 00:43:01.200
Grace Hartley: That I will own the second, and then there are of course i'm just saying this out loud the there are several obligations on the hyper ledger front that they need to confirm.

334
00:43:03.120 --> 00:43:09.570
Grace Hartley: that they will be able to meet to be a part of this program which are listed above.

335
00:43:10.680 --> 00:43:11.460
Grace Hartley: And then.

336
00:43:13.380 --> 00:43:19.980
Grace Hartley: or for yeah basically it all crux is on that you know if they can't meet those obligations that this agreement.

337
00:43:21.120 --> 00:43:21.570
Grace Hartley: can't work.

338
00:43:23.100 --> 00:43:28.110
Grace Hartley: But then, so we can follow up on those just to be explicit and then.

339
00:43:30.390 --> 00:43:36.570
Grace Hartley: But the idea is that you know with this three options on who decided to mean it maintainer.

340
00:43:38.610 --> 00:43:45.930
Grace Hartley: there's no outstanding items unless someone raises it and if we are able to resolve this in the conversations, the next couple of days.

341
00:43:47.850 --> 00:43:52.290
Grace Hartley: A sink, we will consider this proposal final sorry that took me a while to get there.

342
00:43:58.200 --> 00:44:00.240
Grace Hartley: cool okay let's do the other items.

343
00:44:01.440 --> 00:44:05.370
Grace Hartley: What skip roadmap, this time if everyone's okay with that, I think we want to talk about the release updates.

344
00:44:08.910 --> 00:44:10.650
Grace Hartley: was a good spot to start writing that.

345
00:44:17.190 --> 00:44:28.860
Danno Ferrin: Personally, to unmute um how are we going with a 20 210 release i've seen a little bit of chatter online Is there something I can do to help it along to someone have the action item to actually get the release out.

346
00:44:30.210 --> 00:44:33.060
Danno Ferrin: We were halfway through February for was supposed to be our January release.

347
00:44:35.820 --> 00:44:40.680
Danno Ferrin: Is there help I could provide or who has the action item on it, or should I take the action item.

348
00:44:42.300 --> 00:44:55.890
Justin Florentine: So we started that conversation last week and I think I saw some action on it from sally's perspective, but I don't know if that is actively being worked on at the moment.

349
00:44:58.260 --> 00:45:08.940
Justin Florentine: So I would say let's let's sync up with the Australian timezone see what they have done or need to do, and then get something out this week.

350
00:45:09.690 --> 00:45:17.400
Danno Ferrin: Okay, so this kind of underscores the concern I have with releases, is that we need ahead of time decide who's got the action to release it I can.

351
00:45:17.910 --> 00:45:31.140
Danno Ferrin: propose a rotation i'll go to i'll take the 20 111 release i'm assuming that and also 21 one release, if needed, but I think we need to get a schedule, where we identify specific people who are responsible for driving the release.

352
00:45:32.730 --> 00:45:41.730
Danno Ferrin: A year ago, it was always the chupacabra team and TIM was always really good about making sure that it happened, but I think the key here is that there's one person, we can point to and say hey how's it going.

353
00:45:42.390 --> 00:45:43.350
Justin Florentine: So I think that's it.

354
00:45:44.880 --> 00:45:49.290
Justin Florentine: yeah I agree, I think we have a wiki page that has a scheduled it hasn't been updated in forever.

355
00:45:49.500 --> 00:45:52.350
Danno Ferrin: Right its historic reflecting that forward looking.

356
00:45:55.140 --> 00:45:58.410
Danno Ferrin: This is the list when the releases should be but it doesn't say.

357
00:45:58.860 --> 00:46:00.360
Danno Ferrin: who's driving the release.

358
00:46:00.450 --> 00:46:01.560
Justin Florentine: yeah yeah okay.

359
00:46:03.300 --> 00:46:06.600
Justin Florentine: Okay, so, then we just need to set that up right.

360
00:46:08.520 --> 00:46:12.510
Danno Ferrin: um, are there any volunteers who wants to be on the release rotation list is their names I should put on.

361
00:46:12.960 --> 00:46:14.070
Justin Florentine: Here you can put me on there.

362
00:46:14.580 --> 00:46:21.960
Danno Ferrin: justin me to Sally want to turn will it Sally i'll i'll write up a note on chat and see if Sally wants to overnight run on it yeah.

363
00:46:22.710 --> 00:46:25.590
Justin Florentine: I mean we've got a bunch of people in the European time zone as well.

364
00:46:26.130 --> 00:46:29.610
Justin Florentine: Good that are familiar with doing releases and have cut them.

365
00:46:30.930 --> 00:46:31.560
Justin Florentine: So.

366
00:46:32.430 --> 00:46:33.750
jiri: Good to be included as well.

367
00:46:37.260 --> 00:46:37.620
Right.

368
00:46:47.250 --> 00:46:48.240
Justin Florentine: So we need to.

369
00:46:49.440 --> 00:46:52.200
Justin Florentine: send this would be for all release is not just a quarterly is right.

370
00:46:53.070 --> 00:46:53.220
We.

371
00:46:55.200 --> 00:47:00.270
Justin Florentine: Are we still going to opportunistically do the two week ones, or do we want to get into more of a cadence on those.

372
00:47:01.080 --> 00:47:08.040
Danno Ferrin: I think we need to be on a cadence and I think we only stopped the cadence if there's a an explicit reason not to release because we keep the older versions out.

373
00:47:08.460 --> 00:47:15.300
Danno Ferrin: And that's where we were a year ago and it seemed to work well and also made it easy when there was you know regular.

374
00:47:15.780 --> 00:47:26.640
Danno Ferrin: One hard fork start happening again, and especially with the case with etc when they did a short notice hard fork it's easier to say hey we have a two week release will get it out, then, which helps release planning, to be honest.

375
00:47:32.460 --> 00:47:35.760
Gary Schulte: We want to have a volunteer release coordinator for.

376
00:47:36.900 --> 00:47:37.260
Gary Schulte: You know.

377
00:47:38.730 --> 00:47:47.070
Gary Schulte: Minor minor releases the the major releases quarterly or is it, are we going to be responsible for individual point releases only.

378
00:47:48.630 --> 00:47:57.660
Danno Ferrin: So that's the question, do we split up each beta into a different person, but also we need someone to drive the quarterly the dot zero is going to be a bigger bigger task there so we're going to hit that.

379
00:47:59.730 --> 00:48:06.000
Danno Ferrin: April let's try the dot releases and make the call, as we approach the next beta cycle and see how that's going.

380
00:48:06.750 --> 00:48:08.730
Gary Schulte: yeah go ahead and put it on the volunteer list, if you would.

381
00:48:09.300 --> 00:48:09.630
Okay.

382
00:48:19.530 --> 00:48:19.920
Danno Ferrin: Right.

383
00:48:23.100 --> 00:48:27.840
Danno Ferrin: cool so that was just my question and concern with the releases need a.

384
00:48:29.100 --> 00:48:30.750
Danno Ferrin: more explicit process around it.

385
00:48:31.230 --> 00:48:42.090
Gary Schulte: yeah it's a new problem that we've had multiple teams and multiple people that are doing releases so just just some coordination we haven't solved yet it's a good problem to have.

386
00:48:42.900 --> 00:48:43.470
yeah.

387
00:48:48.480 --> 00:48:48.990
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

388
00:48:52.320 --> 00:48:56.520
Danno Ferrin: that's it for my take on releases anyone else got any questions.

389
00:49:03.690 --> 00:49:08.070
Gary Schulte: Okay, the one thing that I would say, which just reiterate, as I think there should should be somebody that is.

390
00:49:09.060 --> 00:49:22.080
Gary Schulte: A release coordinator is going to be responsible for gathering, which should go into the specific releases on a quarterly basis, but like you said, we can we can approach that as we, as we come to the next quarterly because I think part of the problem with why we haven't gotten a.

391
00:49:23.220 --> 00:49:29.190
Gary Schulte: Not out yet is that it's unclear who makes that call what goes into the release what doesn't.

392
00:49:33.030 --> 00:49:33.300
Justin Florentine: hmm.

393
00:49:34.740 --> 00:49:35.370
Justin Florentine: I mean, I was to.

394
00:49:35.400 --> 00:49:36.120
Danno Ferrin: Where it seems wrong.

395
00:49:36.150 --> 00:49:37.890
Danno Ferrin: yeah TIM and Madeline are running that a year ago.

396
00:49:42.060 --> 00:49:42.900
Justin Florentine: yeah.

397
00:49:43.710 --> 00:49:46.950
Gary Schulte: we've had the back and forth with with a release candidates are going to be.

398
00:49:48.150 --> 00:49:55.110
Gary Schulte: More beta and alpha is or will are going to be released candidates, because the 22 dot one is a bit of both right now.

399
00:49:55.620 --> 00:50:01.680
Danno Ferrin: yeah so there was there was an oracle mirror that collectively made the decision I don't know how things are structured right now inside consensus.

400
00:50:02.610 --> 00:50:13.950
Danno Ferrin: But it seems like we need to externalize that process and name a person who has to go no go, or at least a Council, because I know fabric, they have a group of three people, they also only do quarterly releases.

401
00:50:14.670 --> 00:50:23.790
Danno Ferrin: That are the no no go no go committee that has to approve all big says so maybe we need to form a release coming like that and tasks.

402
00:50:28.200 --> 00:50:30.600
Grace Hartley: Think sorry I second raise my hand.

403
00:50:34.170 --> 00:50:37.620
Grace Hartley: I think so, are you able to kind of own this I know this.

404
00:50:38.850 --> 00:50:41.100
Grace Hartley: And it kind of at least run it from the.

405
00:50:42.750 --> 00:50:50.820
Grace Hartley: I guess consensus side and then coordinate and say what what's the right kind of accepts so we're being transparent and running this.

406
00:50:51.540 --> 00:50:52.620
Grace Hartley: yeah and.

407
00:50:53.940 --> 00:50:58.530
Grace Hartley: I like dan's point that we should probably be regular releases and just getting that up and running.

408
00:50:59.130 --> 00:51:00.030
Sajida Zouarhi: yeah just me.

409
00:51:00.090 --> 00:51:07.350
Sajida Zouarhi: Also, I think it's interesting because so last year we had lots of discussion around the release process was there, it should be like.

410
00:51:07.920 --> 00:51:17.340
Sajida Zouarhi: A regular frequency, or if it should be featured Raven until we've experienced in various models currently we have stopped doing.

411
00:51:17.880 --> 00:51:28.350
Sajida Zouarhi: Regular releases for minor months and just keeping the quarterly but it soon as that discord Tony has been delayed, I think it has to do with how the last.

412
00:51:29.070 --> 00:51:36.930
Sajida Zouarhi: couple of weeks when we would love for G shoes and lots of minor releases for customers and specific artwork and stuff like that so we'll get back.

413
00:51:37.950 --> 00:51:48.270
Sajida Zouarhi: on track for this, but something that is worth discussing and to Dennis point around the model that we use it's still unclear to me if it should be.

414
00:51:49.830 --> 00:51:59.730
Sajida Zouarhi: Just you know, like a model where, for example, every two weeks we release or if it should be feature driven because I know but i'll let the engineers speaks to that.

415
00:52:00.810 --> 00:52:04.170
Sajida Zouarhi: Some find this model to be not so not so efficient.

416
00:52:05.100 --> 00:52:10.500
Gary Schulte: I like to go no go of release committee idea, but it would be nice if we could just coordinate via discord.

417
00:52:11.610 --> 00:52:21.780
Gary Schulte: away it's a sink and it's not like another meeting agenda that we need to prepare and have everybody, the same time zone for it'd be interesting to have a sink go no go committee.

418
00:52:25.920 --> 00:52:28.920
Sajida Zouarhi: But, so we have to be on the field as a few basic here on this.

419
00:52:32.010 --> 00:52:43.770
Sajida Zouarhi: And I know that the fact that the release process has been a pain points, as also impacted that discussion, because having regular releases when lots of things went wrong and it took a lot of time was also.

420
00:52:44.220 --> 00:52:57.570
Sajida Zouarhi: factor that we wanted to try to diminish, but things have changed now, we have more people able to release trying to open up the release process to all contributors so So yes, so this is a again a nice problem to have and.

421
00:52:58.530 --> 00:53:05.310
Sajida Zouarhi: And let's discuss how we want to move forward, but from the coordination perspective happy to do it and continue doing it's basically.

422
00:53:07.980 --> 00:53:16.230
Gary Schulte: Another thing that we could continue the conversation and discord about it's i'm excited to have a discord and hyper ledger basically contributors.

423
00:53:20.910 --> 00:53:29.220
Danno Ferrin: cool so let's do this discord then i'm running out of time, but I just want to put this out here it's not to be something we probably decide this week, we need.

424
00:53:30.330 --> 00:53:31.590
Danno Ferrin: input from.

425
00:53:33.840 --> 00:53:42.450
Danno Ferrin: Definitely input from the Australian engineers, but one proposal, I want to seriously go towards is to move to Java 17 as a baseline this year part of that is because.

426
00:53:43.560 --> 00:53:50.220
Danno Ferrin: He it's already basically out is is not fully supported 11 is going to be going through the deprecation cycle to.

427
00:53:50.760 --> 00:54:02.460
Danno Ferrin: The most importantly, there are large number of performance driven functionality that's been added in Java 17 things like seo classes and records that will be able to leverage to get more performance and quality, out of the client.

428
00:54:03.810 --> 00:54:10.080
Danno Ferrin: So the process, for that would be at some point we decide we're going to switch to Java 17 on some quarterly release it's probably going to be.

429
00:54:10.350 --> 00:54:15.840
Danno Ferrin: July or October at this point, because we need to have a full for something of this line, the public doesn't practice in the past.

430
00:54:16.170 --> 00:54:21.450
Danno Ferrin: Is there is a full quarter last time in which job 11 is the baseline there is a full quarter of notice saying hey.

431
00:54:21.780 --> 00:54:31.260
Danno Ferrin: The release coming up in July or October whenever we decide we're going to switch the Java 17 so they get a full notice when we do the full breaking change in the quarterly release.

432
00:54:32.670 --> 00:54:37.380
Danno Ferrin: And then we switch over and start doing all the neat fancy things that Java 79 logs.

433
00:54:40.410 --> 00:54:47.760
Justin Florentine: I love the idea of doing it and quarter to quarter to and i'm terrified of doing it right around the March.

434
00:54:49.800 --> 00:54:52.290
Danno Ferrin: yeah and the merger is going to be in July.

435
00:54:53.760 --> 00:54:55.110
Justin Florentine: yeah yeah.

436
00:54:55.140 --> 00:54:59.040
Danno Ferrin: So that really that's a really strong argument for making it October, to be honest.

437
00:54:59.610 --> 00:55:00.510
Justin Florentine: yeah this.

438
00:55:00.810 --> 00:55:07.860
Gary Schulte: Is the reluctance around doing it at the merge that it's it introduces some unknown to the code base, because I.

439
00:55:07.860 --> 00:55:08.280
Justin Florentine: thought it.

440
00:55:08.430 --> 00:55:11.460
Justin Florentine: The it's 100% fight, I have no actual reason for being scared.

441
00:55:11.940 --> 00:55:24.120
Gary Schulte: yeah because I think the Java 17 I think it'd be it's more of a concern for enterprise clients because that's they would have infrastructure that might be Java 11 specific and I I don't think that there's.

442
00:55:24.750 --> 00:55:34.920
Gary Schulte: Any any other significant base, you can share, I mean that that's a block producing I think there's basically no block producing basin, so it seems like.

443
00:55:36.150 --> 00:55:42.270
Gary Schulte: If we managed to capture some part of that it may not it wouldn't be terribly difficult to bootstrap with 17 as opposed to 11.

444
00:55:44.430 --> 00:55:46.530
Danno Ferrin: So, will we have.

445
00:55:48.600 --> 00:55:57.270
Danno Ferrin: out before or after the marriage, because we can't do it on three we don't have enough notice, I mean can't do dot dot forks we don't have enough notice.

446
00:55:58.200 --> 00:56:01.860
Gary Schulte: it's TIM, still on the call I mean I some people still are saying June, but.

447
00:56:04.440 --> 00:56:09.030
Danno Ferrin: yeah The next question is, will merge, will the merge be running from mainline base you.

448
00:56:10.080 --> 00:56:10.890
Justin Florentine: Yes, who will.

449
00:56:11.280 --> 00:56:11.580
Gary Schulte: It will.

450
00:56:11.640 --> 00:56:12.030
Okay.

451
00:56:13.890 --> 00:56:14.550
Danno Ferrin: um.

452
00:56:16.620 --> 00:56:23.580
Danno Ferrin: We could put that it will be merged 17 no sooner, then the dot seven release, so we can make the call closer to seven.

453
00:56:24.900 --> 00:56:28.560
Gary Schulte: yeah that sounds good, who start start the communications to.

454
00:56:30.630 --> 00:56:34.680
Gary Schulte: The affected parties like probably i'm guessing more of the enterprise type ground.

455
00:56:43.980 --> 00:56:45.930
Justin Florentine: started discussion on the mailing list I guess.

456
00:56:46.920 --> 00:56:47.700
Gary Schulte: That no later than.

457
00:56:48.870 --> 00:56:49.800
Gary Schulte: or no later than.

458
00:56:50.160 --> 00:56:51.030
Danno Ferrin: No sooner than.

459
00:56:51.180 --> 00:56:54.870
Gary Schulte: No sooner than 20 270 okay so 22 dot one is.

460
00:56:56.490 --> 00:56:57.210
Gary Schulte: Okay gotcha.

461
00:57:01.380 --> 00:57:04.770
Justin Florentine: Or we could throw some you know experimental builds and.

462
00:57:06.480 --> 00:57:07.110
Justin Florentine: Tough for.

463
00:57:08.160 --> 00:57:19.200
Danno Ferrin: We could, so we re support building on 717 shifting to 17 really introduces language features and shuts down running on stuff before 17.

464
00:57:20.070 --> 00:57:25.350
Danno Ferrin: yep so if we were going to do it in, for we would have to put the notice in the dot for release as it comes out today.

465
00:57:26.790 --> 00:57:33.480
Danno Ferrin: or whenever that happens next, and I think it's a bit too early for that if I started this discussion back in November, I think we could have gotten there.

466
00:57:36.270 --> 00:57:37.230
Justin Florentine: So.

467
00:57:42.870 --> 00:57:46.590
Justin Florentine: I was thinking like we could include it, as we have the debug variant.

468
00:57:47.730 --> 00:57:56.640
Justin Florentine: docker image we could have it, make it available treated like an RC candidate that's out there, we still have all the testing burden for it and we have the.

469
00:57:57.240 --> 00:58:03.600
Justin Florentine: You know any backwards compatibility stuff that we have to get rid of, but then there's no pressure to introduce any new features that all happens on whatever schedule.

470
00:58:05.070 --> 00:58:17.010
Danno Ferrin: I think I set up a jdk latest docker image that we always have out there, anyway, to make sure that it starts up it runs on jdk latest, so we don't need to add it to the debug because we've got one for golf em we've got one for latest jdk.

471
00:58:17.040 --> 00:58:18.420
Danno Ferrin: that's right, I remember recently having to.

472
00:58:18.420 --> 00:58:19.590
Danno Ferrin: fix it because there was.

473
00:58:20.190 --> 00:58:23.040
Danno Ferrin: We have rebuilt, the docker images because there's some security issues.

474
00:58:25.830 --> 00:58:26.850
Gary Schulte: yeah this is mostly about.

475
00:58:27.990 --> 00:58:34.170
Gary Schulte: deprecating 11 as and new language features as they come, but this is mostly about.

476
00:58:35.430 --> 00:58:36.210
Gary Schulte: Making it such that.

477
00:58:36.900 --> 00:58:43.980
Danno Ferrin: We don't support 1112 to 16 are already end of life so it's just 11 is the only question.

478
00:58:45.600 --> 00:58:50.520
Danno Ferrin: I don't tell that to my current company, because I still have to dig around for Java 14 and Java 16.

479
00:59:01.200 --> 00:59:06.090
Danno Ferrin: So I don't think we have enough people and enough exposure to this to act today so i'll take the action.

480
00:59:06.660 --> 00:59:09.540
Danno Ferrin: To put an announcement on discord and.

481
00:59:09.750 --> 00:59:17.010
Danno Ferrin: Put a post on the mailing list targeting no sooner than 22 seven of things go poorly will slip the 2010.

482
00:59:18.000 --> 00:59:19.050
Gary Schulte: The other sounds reasonable.

483
00:59:19.530 --> 00:59:23.100
Justin Florentine: And the messaging is just we are deprecating the 11 image it's not going to be.

484
00:59:23.130 --> 00:59:26.040
Justin Florentine: continued to work out it's not going to get fixes it's not going to get support.

485
00:59:26.460 --> 00:59:27.810
Gary Schulte: will build a movement eventually.

486
00:59:28.440 --> 00:59:35.850
Danno Ferrin: don't even build on 17 that's the big thing and we'll build on 17 so I won't build on 11 really build on 17 or later yeah.

487
00:59:36.930 --> 00:59:37.680
Danno Ferrin: yeah okay.

488
00:59:37.740 --> 00:59:38.010
Justin Florentine: All right.

489
00:59:40.950 --> 00:59:43.320
Danno Ferrin: Those are the two big things I wanted to have discussed.

490
00:59:45.060 --> 00:59:46.230
Danno Ferrin: run discord.

491
00:59:46.860 --> 00:59:50.400
Danno Ferrin: Should we set up a midweek chat sometime next week just set a time.

492
00:59:51.420 --> 00:59:52.200
Justin Florentine: yep club.

493
00:59:52.800 --> 00:59:53.760
Danno Ferrin: What days work.

494
00:59:56.760 --> 00:59:58.830
Justin Florentine: Oh, I don't have much of a life pick one.

495
01:00:00.420 --> 01:00:03.360
Danno Ferrin: Should we just do Tuesdays at the same time, this meeting would be.

496
01:00:05.460 --> 01:00:07.350
Danno Ferrin: To just be on discord chatter do you want a different time.

497
01:00:08.160 --> 01:00:08.970
Justin Florentine: That might actually.

498
01:00:09.360 --> 01:00:10.140
Justin Florentine: Be back.

499
01:00:10.290 --> 01:00:10.860
Danno Ferrin: and check.

500
01:00:11.340 --> 01:00:12.690
Gary Schulte: Out of participants are we targeting.

501
01:00:14.190 --> 01:00:14.880
Danno Ferrin: i'm.

502
01:00:15.360 --> 01:00:18.030
Danno Ferrin: wants to get on these basically anyone who's.

503
01:00:18.060 --> 01:00:27.690
Danno Ferrin: Contributing to basically, I mean we could rotate it, I just want to get some non recorded chit chat going on it's been all the maintainer so we have weekly connection.

504
01:00:28.440 --> 01:00:31.560
Karim T.: I think during the show until slots fine.

505
01:00:33.780 --> 01:00:35.580
Justin Florentine: That would be this would be this time slot danna.

506
01:00:36.240 --> 01:00:39.090
Danno Ferrin: Okay, oh you thought you'd give shout out earlier okay.

507
01:00:43.590 --> 01:00:46.650
Danno Ferrin: i'll start a thread on discord as well for this see what people want.

508
01:00:47.940 --> 01:00:52.260
Gary Schulte: And like having an eight Pack and an ma would make good sense in a way, you could.

509
01:00:52.290 --> 01:00:52.740
Gary Schulte: We could.

510
01:00:52.980 --> 01:00:56.070
Gary Schulte: spend the contributing time zones yeah.

511
01:00:56.100 --> 01:00:56.610
yeah.

512
01:01:01.860 --> 01:01:04.170
Grace Hartley: There are a couple more items on the agenda, I think.

513
01:01:04.290 --> 01:01:14.400
Grace Hartley: Diego on his talk about the log for to Jay deprecation the I don't know what the docker image signing one was but anyway let's follow up with these on discord.

514
01:01:14.610 --> 01:01:15.510
Danno Ferrin: And we can get.

515
01:01:15.600 --> 01:01:16.110
Grace Hartley: up the agenda.

516
01:01:17.070 --> 01:01:25.860
Danno Ferrin: I do have a quick update on docker signing that's going to be difficult for the lf to hold keys so that's going to be one major bump there, the way the.

517
01:01:26.940 --> 01:01:37.110
Danno Ferrin: fabric does there's key signing for their maven uploads is they trust one engineered to be a nice person and not sure their keys which kind of defeats the purpose and lf.

518
01:01:37.560 --> 01:01:45.390
Danno Ferrin: They have a lot more overhead and maintaining keys than a lot of organizations, because they're joining target to be honest, so.

519
01:01:47.340 --> 01:01:58.890
Danno Ferrin: So that there's going to be speed bumps there I think it's a good idea, but we're probably going to be leading the charge for some things it'll need to be led in fx so that's just you know, to set expectations on that I think it's a good idea.

520
01:02:04.140 --> 01:02:05.070
Justin Florentine: kind of get creative.

521
01:02:10.380 --> 01:02:19.950
Grace Hartley: Thanks guys, I think we can call it, I think I listed some next steps and actions in here so we'll share out this as our notes for after call.

522
01:02:22.260 --> 01:02:26.310
Grace Hartley: and feel free to read and give me feedback by oh awesome.

523
01:02:28.050 --> 01:02:28.500
Justin Florentine: See ya.

