WEBVTT

1
00:00:23.400 --> 00:00:25.320
Francesco Andreoli: Basically mission awesome.

2
00:00:26.340 --> 00:00:28.830
Francesco Andreoli: cool so awesome welcome everybody to the 15th.

3
00:00:30.060 --> 00:00:43.290
Francesco Andreoli: Of the basic intuition calls and quick housekeeping these meetings being recorded, so please mute and speaking until just not is you can find a year, and if you have a question, please raise your hand and we've got to speak.

4
00:00:44.760 --> 00:00:55.050
Francesco Andreoli: yeah so because they started so general announcements I don't know if this was updated by grace, but about the incentive program update anybody has any update on that.

5
00:01:00.720 --> 00:01:01.800
Danno Ferrin: I don't have any inside.

6
00:01:01.950 --> 00:01:11.520
Danno Ferrin: But the last of US spoken, it was going to legal review with hyper ledger consensus and the, which is a big black box that will hear nothing about unless it's accessible.

7
00:01:12.690 --> 00:01:13.050
Francesco Andreoli: Oh.

8
00:01:13.350 --> 00:01:13.680
Okay.

9
00:01:15.210 --> 00:01:16.740
Francesco Andreoli: gotcha thanks for the update.

10
00:01:18.780 --> 00:01:21.960
Francesco Andreoli: So I see here from grace was an option to.

11
00:01:23.010 --> 00:01:29.100
Francesco Andreoli: For how to resolve remaining container security program that's what you mentioned no thanks.

12
00:01:32.820 --> 00:01:36.210
Francesco Andreoli: I guess, we can directly speak on the release updates.

13
00:01:37.230 --> 00:01:41.850
Francesco Andreoli: On the 21st that's done I don't want to want to say something about it.

14
00:01:47.220 --> 00:01:47.880
Danno Ferrin: I did.

15
00:01:48.360 --> 00:01:48.930
Go ahead.

16
00:01:52.470 --> 00:01:53.400
Danno Ferrin: Because I hear my ECHO.

17
00:01:54.000 --> 00:02:04.260
Danno Ferrin: Oh, I did the 21 dot one release 22 dot one dot one release I did a bit of a different approach on that one instead of doing it on the main line I did it on a.

18
00:02:05.160 --> 00:02:12.480
Danno Ferrin: A site bit, so I picked a particular commit and so that didn't wind up shutting down the main that were able to do the release on the side.

19
00:02:13.050 --> 00:02:20.940
Danno Ferrin: And then I merged it back in not with the squash merged with a normal merge, so we can track, you know and get it in the same chain, so when you download.

20
00:02:21.660 --> 00:02:33.480
Danno Ferrin: The main chain, the main speaking of like a chain, but the main branch for get having the history will have the release history, what do you get the main because it's all dependent on it and that seemed to go fairly boringly.

21
00:02:34.740 --> 00:02:47.460
Danno Ferrin: Because was on a side chain, I could wait, you know, half a day to get feedback from other people and approvals on some of these things so that was one advantage is, it was very asynchronously releasable and you can pick any point in history to do your release.

22
00:02:53.460 --> 00:02:55.170
Francesco Andreoli: sounds good any comments on that or.

23
00:02:56.400 --> 00:02:57.420
Francesco Andreoli: See Gary shutting off.

24
00:02:57.450 --> 00:02:58.500
Gary Schulte: yeah i'll say.

25
00:02:59.010 --> 00:03:00.750
Gary Schulte: That that's a great strategy.

26
00:03:01.080 --> 00:03:04.560
Gary Schulte: Just because it's a lot less coordination and a lot less time pressure.

27
00:03:05.220 --> 00:03:11.640
Gary Schulte: i'll also go on to say that you know we were planning to do an off cycle releases 21 dot one.to to release for killing support.

28
00:03:12.060 --> 00:03:22.800
Gary Schulte: And we didn't end up doing that off cycle, because we still had some outstanding PRS for that so we're going to stick to the original Friday the 18th scheduled for 21 dot one.to.

29
00:03:25.650 --> 00:03:26.010
Gary Schulte: and

30
00:03:27.480 --> 00:03:33.630
Gary Schulte: I think Dana you had mentioned that there's some need for us to take up about a week's worth of slack and our release schedule so.

31
00:03:34.680 --> 00:03:37.170
Gary Schulte: we'll probably do that with a different release.

32
00:03:37.680 --> 00:03:43.380
Danno Ferrin: I think we're there, because if we stick with a release this week, we can use the contributor calm meetings to give an update on.

33
00:03:43.860 --> 00:03:49.350
Danno Ferrin: On what needs to go into the release and for people to say hey I need to get this killed update I need to get this edm update.

34
00:03:49.980 --> 00:03:55.530
Danno Ferrin: If you do it in the contributor meeting, so I actually liked where it's at right now, so we could do like a Wednesday, Thursday release.

35
00:03:56.460 --> 00:04:04.440
Danno Ferrin: You know, as if we're doing a release last week, we still need to get another you know, a few days and it looks like we got there with some of the delays trying to get killed done properly.

36
00:04:05.700 --> 00:04:16.170
Danno Ferrin: But my philosophy on off cycle releases is that there's an external event like you know classic four or four four main net that those i'm totally on board with.

37
00:04:19.320 --> 00:04:19.650
Gary Schulte: Great.

38
00:04:19.980 --> 00:04:27.330
Gary Schulte: That we didn't end up using it this time but it's good to know for the future that that's that's a an escape hatch for the cycle if we need to.

39
00:04:30.120 --> 00:04:34.080
Francesco Andreoli: sounds good, so you guys are all set for the for the phone to ring on everybody's.

40
00:04:34.740 --> 00:04:35.190
names.

41
00:04:37.620 --> 00:04:43.560
Danno Ferrin: yeah can you click on here too I think that's got the names it's got current schedule your.

42
00:04:44.880 --> 00:04:45.360
Francesco Andreoli: Nice.

43
00:04:45.420 --> 00:04:57.450
Danno Ferrin: So I think frank is set up for the next one, and then we got Stefan Lucas and justin and as we get closer April 13 million volunteers, I can fill in on that one the rcs do tend to be a bit more.

44
00:04:59.370 --> 00:05:03.960
Danno Ferrin: Get intensive than your typical emerges your typical releases but it's not to that.

45
00:05:07.020 --> 00:05:07.680
Danno Ferrin: sounds good.

46
00:05:08.910 --> 00:05:09.330
Danno Ferrin: cool.

47
00:05:11.220 --> 00:05:12.210
Francesco Andreoli: I like this rotation.

48
00:05:13.290 --> 00:05:18.630
Francesco Andreoli: cool team is working towards research process improvements, so I guess you mentioned that done right.

49
00:05:20.130 --> 00:05:20.700
cool.

50
00:05:22.140 --> 00:05:25.230
Francesco Andreoli: So should we run some works updates on the tree say actually.

51
00:05:25.320 --> 00:05:28.440
Justin Florentine: guys real quick real quick release process improvements.

52
00:05:29.610 --> 00:05:41.400
Justin Florentine: Dana Would you mind adding just a brief paragraph to that page that we're including all the release process improvements just describing the commit based approach, I think that would be helpful to capture that there because it does sound like a good improvement.

53
00:05:43.200 --> 00:05:47.670
Danno Ferrin: That sounds good, and the best way to ensure that happens is to put my name next with checkmark on that page summer.

54
00:05:50.040 --> 00:05:50.400
Justin Florentine: Okay.

55
00:05:51.960 --> 00:05:52.440
Nice.

56
00:05:55.140 --> 00:06:00.270
Francesco Andreoli: cool so on what was very so Tracy API that's ongoing.

57
00:06:06.300 --> 00:06:10.110
Danno Ferrin: I think that's the Australia teams, I saw Sally do some commits with that.

58
00:06:12.000 --> 00:06:13.590
Francesco Andreoli: Okay, no I just I guess with.

59
00:06:15.120 --> 00:06:19.530
sajz: The chat is disabled, but I was going to drop a comment on this it's actually done.

60
00:06:22.410 --> 00:06:22.860
Right.

61
00:06:25.410 --> 00:06:25.770
Yes.

62
00:06:27.210 --> 00:06:29.580
Francesco Andreoli: It is done and merge or update.

63
00:06:30.960 --> 00:06:40.200
Gary Schulte: yeah so vic music is a killer network has launched, and I think like should have merged.

64
00:06:41.250 --> 00:06:44.460
Gary Schulte: Within the last couple of minutes or so maybe half hour.

65
00:06:45.480 --> 00:06:53.340
Gary Schulte: And the basic version that's been advertised that supports killin is 21 dot one.to snapshot and then, once we.

66
00:06:54.360 --> 00:07:09.720
Gary Schulte: there's a lot of sync work that's in progress for backwards sync and for stop saying support and must be get all of that sorted out and release 21 dot one.to that will be our official killing release, but for now we're communicating that 21 dot one.to snapshot is are killing support.

67
00:07:11.640 --> 00:07:16.350
Gary Schulte: And that is killing network is the execution spec is.

68
00:07:18.210 --> 00:07:22.260
Gary Schulte: version two killed spec version two dot one which is about as close to final.

69
00:07:24.450 --> 00:07:28.620
Gary Schulte: bell can't say its final but it's very close to the final merge spec.

70
00:07:30.780 --> 00:07:31.170
Nice.

71
00:07:33.000 --> 00:07:36.810
Danno Ferrin: How close, are we to getting those in for 22 want to.

72
00:07:38.850 --> 00:07:42.120
Danno Ferrin: You know, hold up 20 212 or do we need look in putting in a 20 213.

73
00:07:45.240 --> 00:07:53.700
Gary Schulte: Well, we haven't had a stand up yet to discuss that yet, but the I think Kareem and or Uri could probably give an update on.

74
00:07:55.140 --> 00:07:55.530
Gary Schulte: The.

75
00:07:57.120 --> 00:08:01.740
Gary Schulte: Competing but the to sync strategies that are in the process of merging currently.

76
00:08:03.780 --> 00:08:06.630
jiri: yeah i'm doing the big crunching and.

77
00:08:08.190 --> 00:08:25.680
jiri: Right now i'm capable of singing properly, it seems like but i'm doing still some testing, so I think there is a chance ever managed until Friday to get it in, there are some tests missing, so I don't have food this coverage will need to work on it and and need to be some cleanup.

78
00:08:27.270 --> 00:08:27.690
jiri: I think.

79
00:08:28.740 --> 00:08:38.790
Karim T.: I can give some updates regarding snaps think it's not really important for the mouse but i'm still working on snap seeing i'm close to have something working so.

80
00:08:39.840 --> 00:08:50.850
Karim T.: Something is working on golly so I need to do some modification for some men that but I started this week to split My big deal into small PA.

81
00:08:51.390 --> 00:09:02.670
Karim T.: And I restart two males every time small part of the code to facilitate a review and yes i'm trying to move forward on that so feel free to review.

82
00:09:03.810 --> 00:09:09.900
Karim T.: I started to put some small to 1pm this week and I will continue like that during the next week.

83
00:09:10.860 --> 00:09:12.360
Danno Ferrin: or either these critical for cal.

84
00:09:13.710 --> 00:09:15.480
Gary Schulte: Only the backwards think is critical for again.

85
00:09:17.160 --> 00:09:25.890
Gary Schulte: But there's some of that is a little bit of potential merge conflict, so I think that they need to, we need to be communicating as we merge.

86
00:09:27.120 --> 00:09:27.510
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

87
00:09:35.940 --> 00:09:47.580
Danno Ferrin: You don't want to push these releases out too long, because they have two week releases it's not too much of a release if we need to slip it so but I don't want to be very strict on a deadline either so.

88
00:09:48.990 --> 00:09:56.250
Gary Schulte: I mean we already had 10 put out a blog post on the you have you have blog about Kim support and referenced.

89
00:09:57.090 --> 00:10:02.550
Gary Schulte: The the different merge ready clients and the the basic version that's communicated is 21 dot one.to snapshot so.

90
00:10:03.510 --> 00:10:12.480
Gary Schulte: I don't think that we, we were really kind of pushing to have a release version in that communication and I don't I don't think that we have a.

91
00:10:13.020 --> 00:10:27.750
Gary Schulte: Huge pressing need for that to necessarily be a specific release version other clients are using you know branches and not not mainline releases for sure, so I don't think that we're too far off of the norm, therefore, killing support with a snapshot release.

92
00:10:33.090 --> 00:10:33.480
cool.

93
00:10:35.340 --> 00:10:45.060
Francesco Andreoli: cool then and future backwards from from Dan oh no thanks thanks for tagging yourself in I think that's very useful, then we know.

94
00:10:45.090 --> 00:10:45.330
yeah.

95
00:10:46.530 --> 00:10:53.160
Danno Ferrin: So the first one is what we discussed a month ago, when I just want to get a grip commit on it, so I can start putting into the change logs.

96
00:10:53.730 --> 00:11:03.690
Danno Ferrin: To move to Java 17 and the first release after the middle of the year, so this next quarter we released, we will put a warning and they're saying we're updating our base Java 17.

97
00:11:04.290 --> 00:11:11.850
Danno Ferrin: And then the next quarter after it we actually do it so i'm going to get a PR ready for that this week, unless there's an objection to that plan.

98
00:11:13.320 --> 00:11:23.700
Danno Ferrin: The next one is i'm stacking up also changes for the next quarterly release to break things that had era in some of our performance tests networks we identified that the.

99
00:11:24.180 --> 00:11:31.740
Danno Ferrin: The gas object of using the track gas has there's a lot of short lived objects that are created by that math because it's an immutable object.

100
00:11:32.340 --> 00:11:46.020
Danno Ferrin: And, with all the fun things with Java currently where those objects have identity and other interesting things it causes a lot of garbage collection pressure at high volume, so I broke the branch where we replace it with a primitive.

101
00:11:47.490 --> 00:11:56.640
Danno Ferrin: And that had an impact on some of the API so it can't just go in this release we're gonna have to wait for quarterly release, so I leaked the PR that goes to it.

102
00:11:57.150 --> 00:12:07.530
Danno Ferrin: A couple of interesting things I ran into the gas object was hiding some value Clamping where if a guest value gets too high, it will just return long Max value.

103
00:12:07.980 --> 00:12:17.640
Danno Ferrin: When you get the long value for the gas, it was doing some hiding of the values in there, and that is Clamping it to the Max law Max value.

104
00:12:18.450 --> 00:12:29.130
Danno Ferrin: is actually consistent with a new VIP that was discussed in the last awkward deb's, or so I think it was two ago actually where gases being limited to to to the 63 minus one.

105
00:12:30.210 --> 00:12:37.110
Danno Ferrin: Whether it's a transaction limit or internal limit and a lot of the discussion that went on revealed that a lot of the clients had this limit internally anyway.

106
00:12:37.860 --> 00:12:45.150
Danno Ferrin: So going to along isn't going to cause compatibility problems because all the clients will break in the same way in the event we go to.

107
00:12:45.840 --> 00:12:55.770
Danno Ferrin: I think it's quintillion gas some 16 quintillion gas, which is an absurdly large number that I don't think you could compute recently with that chewing up a lot of memory.

108
00:12:56.430 --> 00:13:03.990
Danno Ferrin: And those are the tests were I ran into for the most part, is where they were allocating ridiculous amounts of memory like you know terabytes of memory.

109
00:13:05.580 --> 00:13:14.970
Danno Ferrin: gigabytes or terabytes of memory, and that was breaking the gas calculation so that's where I put the Clamping in so that test it passes all unit tests and all reference tests for reference.

110
00:13:19.320 --> 00:13:28.680
Danno Ferrin: So that's what i'm planning up at the end I think there's another one I probably should have pulled in this is for Diego i'm dedicating log for Jay to but we'd rather do that in the open forum.

111
00:13:30.630 --> 00:13:31.500
Danno Ferrin: that's up to Diego.

112
00:13:34.950 --> 00:13:36.990
Francesco Andreoli: Okay, so you can follow up in the in the chat on that.

113
00:13:37.950 --> 00:13:39.390
Danno Ferrin: yeah i'll post it in the chat.

114
00:13:39.540 --> 00:13:46.860
Danno Ferrin: And, but it's not going to come in till the April release, so you have to maintain that branch separately with merges.

115
00:13:47.940 --> 00:13:48.870
Diego López León: yeah no worries.

116
00:13:52.140 --> 00:13:53.460
Francesco Andreoli: cool awesome.

117
00:13:54.480 --> 00:14:08.940
Francesco Andreoli: sweet, it is so on in terms of other updates and thanks so much for like commenting I think on the on the request Nicolaides actually that's very useful so on all business is automated security both requests that seal see you then or.

118
00:14:13.860 --> 00:14:16.710
Danno Ferrin: yeah that's still me, so this is something I put in, there is a.

119
00:14:17.760 --> 00:14:25.710
Danno Ferrin: Security breakout group for the CSC we're talking about security issues relating to hyper ledger blockchains in general into the projects in particular.

120
00:14:26.670 --> 00:14:34.140
Danno Ferrin: there's about like three different threads because security's a very, very deep source of thing to pull from one of the.

121
00:14:34.830 --> 00:14:43.110
Danno Ferrin: Issues that came up was that the Linux foundation is putting together a security scanner for all Linux foundation projects and hence hyper ledger projects.

122
00:14:43.770 --> 00:14:50.430
Danno Ferrin: So if we have anything that we want them to scan now would be a prime time for us to come up with suggestions.

123
00:14:51.120 --> 00:15:03.390
Danno Ferrin: And I think one of those might be to look into the actual ship jars and compare those against CDs and have that as one of the heads up, I think, depend upon the number of other tools already do this.

124
00:15:04.440 --> 00:15:10.140
Danno Ferrin: If they aggregate that information that's fine if they do it themselves that fine but that's one thing I think we should consider asking them for.

125
00:15:10.530 --> 00:15:19.380
Danno Ferrin: But if there's other requests that any of the other engineers who are involved in the security process might have this is an excellent time to to add them.

126
00:15:21.000 --> 00:15:21.810
Danno Ferrin: As requests.

127
00:15:23.820 --> 00:15:24.300
Danno Ferrin: Anyone.

128
00:15:25.740 --> 00:15:32.670
Justin Florentine: The only other one that I can think of it's basically the same thing is depend about is the X Ray stuff through J frog.

129
00:15:33.810 --> 00:15:38.970
Justin Florentine: i've i've seen good results with that in the past, but the past is now year and a half ago, so.

130
00:15:40.470 --> 00:15:44.190
Justin Florentine: That would be another one that I would throw out there, but i'm not super committed to it.

131
00:15:46.020 --> 00:15:48.840
Justin Florentine: um that's artifact very specific though right.

132
00:15:49.860 --> 00:15:51.030
Justin Florentine: anybody else familiar with X Ray.

133
00:15:53.010 --> 00:15:54.660
Danno Ferrin: yeah I think it is artifact very specific.

134
00:15:55.230 --> 00:15:55.500
Ry Jones: Okay.

135
00:15:55.920 --> 00:15:56.370
Ry Jones: We got.

136
00:15:57.030 --> 00:15:58.920
Ry Jones: The Linux foundation does pay for.

137
00:15:59.340 --> 00:16:04.110
Ry Jones: artifacts for hyper ledger so if it is, it should be available.

138
00:16:04.800 --> 00:16:05.130
Okay.

139
00:16:08.220 --> 00:16:09.540
Justin Florentine: I think it should be on it's a basement.

140
00:16:09.540 --> 00:16:14.400
Justin Florentine: And I think you're asking me like what should we have on the list of things for them to evaluate for consideration.

141
00:16:14.790 --> 00:16:17.160
Justin Florentine: For static security analysis.

142
00:16:19.410 --> 00:16:23.010
Danno Ferrin: Yes, before they commit to features, do we have any asks that they, we should look at.

143
00:16:25.680 --> 00:16:27.660
Justin Florentine: I I would I would look at extra yeah.

144
00:16:35.340 --> 00:16:37.380
Justin Florentine: i'm also a big fan of depends, but that third in the list.

145
00:16:38.280 --> 00:16:42.240
Danno Ferrin: Is there a darker version of X Ray or dependent Bob we might want to ask them for as well.

146
00:16:47.490 --> 00:16:48.570
Justin Florentine: That I know of but.

147
00:16:48.870 --> 00:16:49.230
again.

148
00:16:53.040 --> 00:16:57.600
Danno Ferrin: Okay, if you think of any just post them in the basic contributors just for chat.

149
00:16:59.910 --> 00:17:00.210
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

150
00:17:05.190 --> 00:17:05.970
Francesco Andreoli: Good points.

151
00:17:07.020 --> 00:17:12.360
Francesco Andreoli: So you are Nicholas the one limitation that you mentioned.

152
00:17:12.900 --> 00:17:14.910
Nicolas Massart: Yes, sorry I got disconnected.

153
00:17:15.420 --> 00:17:16.230
Nicolas Massart: i'm just back.

154
00:17:17.880 --> 00:17:18.330
Nicolas Massart: So.

155
00:17:20.070 --> 00:17:33.540
Nicolas Massart: We have this it's not a big issue, but we are just a small team for for documenting be zoo on the conservative side and we document many things, and we are just the four of us.

156
00:17:35.040 --> 00:17:39.390
Nicolas Massart: And I would like to have I would love to have more contributors and on the duck.

157
00:17:41.070 --> 00:17:50.490
Nicolas Massart: And one way to to improve that, in my opinion, is to have something clear about the guidelines and everything and.

158
00:17:51.690 --> 00:17:56.070
Nicolas Massart: One way to have better guidelines is to have them updated.

159
00:17:57.420 --> 00:18:06.270
Nicolas Massart: And because autumn is a bit small, we would like to see with the Community if it would be a big deal if.

160
00:18:06.900 --> 00:18:22.650
Nicolas Massart: A pizza guidelines were centralized I know it's not the right word but centralized into one place where we yeah like Google writing guidelines on Microsoft writing guidelines that we already use.

161
00:18:23.700 --> 00:18:40.980
Nicolas Massart: We could have consensus guidelines that could apply to to Beijing duck it will not change contributing process, including this you and everything but it's just about the writing guidelines so if you just click on the top left on the documentation.

162
00:18:42.900 --> 00:18:44.610
Nicolas Massart: On the same site here.

163
00:18:46.020 --> 00:18:50.370
Nicolas Massart: So on the top left menu, you have documentation.

164
00:18:52.020 --> 00:18:55.800
Nicolas Massart: On the Gray left, but the table of content.

165
00:18:56.910 --> 00:18:57.810
Francesco Andreoli: or here yeah.

166
00:18:58.050 --> 00:19:13.320
Nicolas Massart: yeah on the top on the top you have documentation yeah yeah can you click on this, and so we have contributing to the documentation and contribution workflow that will stay in the wiki here, but, for instance, the anchor docs and margin guides.

167
00:19:14.490 --> 00:19:18.330
Nicolas Massart: and be soo documentation style, which are.

168
00:19:19.440 --> 00:19:29.460
Nicolas Massart: ways to write the marg on for the Doc is something that we would really benefit in having it into one place.

169
00:19:30.630 --> 00:19:51.540
Nicolas Massart: And that was my question, is it acceptable from the hyper ledger point of view, to have this pointing to a consensus guideline because currently honestly we just copying past it's it's really mostly the same, and so we would have on one place to to update.

170
00:19:52.590 --> 00:19:57.510
Nicolas Massart: But because it involves pointing to consensus, they want to make sure that's fine.

171
00:20:05.760 --> 00:20:06.690
Ry Jones: Please don't do that.

172
00:20:07.740 --> 00:20:10.230
Nicolas Massart: I don't know I don't know that's why I asked.

173
00:20:10.470 --> 00:20:13.200
Nicolas Massart: yeah it would ease or everyday work.

174
00:20:13.200 --> 00:20:24.630
Nicolas Massart: For on the on the consensus ducting perspective but that's why I asked her, I want to make sure that yeah if we do that it's not a surprise for anyone and it's fine.

175
00:20:25.260 --> 00:20:30.450
Ry Jones: yeah so we're still we hyper ledger i'm speaking, you know as a hyper ledger employee.

176
00:20:31.590 --> 00:20:43.620
Ry Jones: We are still battling the idea in the market that we are IBM employees and anything that happened would happen like this, where official docks were hosted on consensus.

177
00:20:44.250 --> 00:20:47.190
Nicolas Massart: brand knows the duck will not be official that would not.

178
00:20:47.760 --> 00:20:48.030
Ry Jones: Be.

179
00:20:48.090 --> 00:20:49.470
Ry Jones: The guidelines change.

180
00:20:49.560 --> 00:20:54.630
Nicolas Massart: yeah just the Gala but the thing we find to Google and Microsoft guidelines, in fact.

181
00:20:57.420 --> 00:21:03.030
Ry Jones: Okay, keep it as is for now, and I will ask internally to see, since you are appointed other guidelines.

182
00:21:03.450 --> 00:21:10.920
Nicolas Massart: If you look at the link in the Doc on the Left busy documentation style guide the fourth one.

183
00:21:13.920 --> 00:21:18.060
Nicolas Massart: Then we already have some links to.

184
00:21:19.980 --> 00:21:23.490
Nicolas Massart: scroll down, we have some meetings already to.

185
00:21:25.680 --> 00:21:30.960
Nicolas Massart: The writing style Microsoft style guide and Google increases duck writing guides in there that.

186
00:21:32.520 --> 00:21:33.690
Ry Jones: Okay, I understand now.

187
00:21:34.290 --> 00:21:36.180
Nicolas Massart: It would be the exact same thing.

188
00:21:36.570 --> 00:21:38.310
Ry Jones: yeah don't worry about what I said for easily them.

189
00:21:39.930 --> 00:21:50.280
Danno Ferrin: So one question I have made right might help with this, or their general writing guidelines that other projects have or Is this something learning materials working group might want to address.

190
00:21:51.870 --> 00:21:57.420
Danno Ferrin: Do we want a standard hyper ledger standard or do we want to let each project do its own collection of.

191
00:21:57.630 --> 00:21:58.110
question.

192
00:22:00.630 --> 00:22:02.880
Ry Jones: that's a good question I don't have an answer for it.

193
00:22:05.040 --> 00:22:08.190
Ry Jones: I think that's actually probably reasonable question for the tlc.

194
00:22:09.270 --> 00:22:09.660
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

195
00:22:10.350 --> 00:22:13.350
Danno Ferrin: hey something to talk about this Thursday that'll be good.

196
00:22:17.460 --> 00:22:18.180
Danno Ferrin: And i'll bring it.

197
00:22:19.050 --> 00:22:30.480
Nicolas Massart: So I take that as for the moment we don't change anything and let's have this discussion with a more global hyper ledger.

198
00:22:33.960 --> 00:22:36.240
Nicolas Massart: instance, and I will.

199
00:22:37.290 --> 00:22:39.090
Nicolas Massart: see what what happens next.

200
00:22:41.700 --> 00:22:49.710
Danno Ferrin: yeah because i'm sure all the other companies that come in, they use their company style for sure, because i'm sure IBM does i'm sure certainly to does.

201
00:22:51.630 --> 00:23:01.950
Danno Ferrin: Because, not because whoever it is that that does um solitude, so this is this is worth discussion even if nothing comes from another tasc I agree with right okay.

202
00:23:02.790 --> 00:23:05.370
Nicolas Massart: Great that answers my question.

203
00:23:07.350 --> 00:23:09.690
Francesco Andreoli: So done it was, as you see, on that.

204
00:23:10.770 --> 00:23:15.300
Francesco Andreoli: Should we check the matrix and the roadmap.

205
00:23:21.090 --> 00:23:21.570
Francesco Andreoli: So.

206
00:23:25.200 --> 00:23:28.950
Francesco Andreoli: We added the presentation, nothing is from the past.

207
00:23:30.000 --> 00:23:32.700
Francesco Andreoli: Contribution calls or anybody has.

208
00:23:34.620 --> 00:23:35.580
Francesco Andreoli: anything to say on that.

209
00:23:38.820 --> 00:23:42.870
Justin Florentine: Only that i've noticed, you know more new faces in PR so that's fun.

210
00:23:45.570 --> 00:23:46.470
Francesco Andreoli: Oh yeah.

211
00:23:54.840 --> 00:23:56.400
Francesco Andreoli: After contribution to yeah.

212
00:24:02.760 --> 00:24:03.960
Francesco Andreoli: Was this Big Brother which.

213
00:24:07.290 --> 00:24:10.740
Justin Florentine: That might have been the hackathon the grace hopper hackathon.

214
00:24:11.670 --> 00:24:21.240
Justin Florentine: Oh yeah Open Source day rather wasn't it wasn't really a hackathon, but it was that was the entire point was to get new people introduced to open source and get their first PR submitted.

215
00:24:22.470 --> 00:24:27.300
Francesco Andreoli: Nice yeah and I guess also did I pleasure global forum now is normally they can.

216
00:24:28.320 --> 00:24:30.600
Francesco Andreoli: win is that I think this year is to happening right.

217
00:24:31.710 --> 00:24:32.580
This might be cool.

218
00:24:38.190 --> 00:24:43.560
Francesco Andreoli: Okay, so can move to the roadmap, if anyone has anything to say on that.

219
00:24:45.750 --> 00:24:48.540
Francesco Andreoli: So you guys modify the roadmap somehow or.

220
00:24:49.650 --> 00:24:50.460
Francesco Andreoli: 22 I.

221
00:24:54.210 --> 00:24:56.610
Francesco Andreoli: Think, we spoke around ready on there.

222
00:24:58.680 --> 00:24:58.800
We.

223
00:25:02.100 --> 00:25:10.590
Gary Schulte: could say something that about bonds I removing the experimental flag, I think that that's that's in the works currently.

224
00:25:11.310 --> 00:25:11.820
Justin Florentine: Oh yeah.

225
00:25:12.480 --> 00:25:13.170
Francesco Andreoli: You want to hurt.

226
00:25:16.590 --> 00:25:16.890
Sorry.

227
00:25:18.450 --> 00:25:20.730
Justin Florentine: I was just saying that the PR that Gary is referring to is approved.

228
00:25:28.620 --> 00:25:28.920
cool.

229
00:25:30.780 --> 00:25:31.830
Francesco Andreoli: awesome awesome.

230
00:25:32.550 --> 00:25:45.300
Justin Florentine: So the way there's also i'm Dana you wrote a good document sort of at the beginning of the year that had sort of a more of a vision statement there's a little bit broader than a specific roadmap, do we want to.

231
00:25:46.350 --> 00:25:54.570
Justin Florentine: kind of just review that and square it with the upcoming roadmap, because I was, I was reading that document is very interesting and I kind of.

232
00:25:55.020 --> 00:26:09.450
Justin Florentine: stumbled across the architecture diagram that we currently have posted on read the docs and I was like i'm personally very interested in modular ization and I see a bunch of synergy between all of these things, I wonder if there's an opportunity here for us to take like.

233
00:26:10.560 --> 00:26:20.310
Justin Florentine: The roadmap, the vision and the architecture diagram kind of update them all and get them lined up with an eye towards modular ization.

234
00:26:21.450 --> 00:26:23.520
Justin Florentine: Is that what do people think about that.

235
00:26:24.720 --> 00:26:31.080
Danno Ferrin: um yeah I think that's a good idea for let me get the Doc in there, and so we can talk about it and i'll let other people.

236
00:26:32.310 --> 00:26:33.090
Danno Ferrin: speak as well.

237
00:26:35.280 --> 00:26:35.700
Justin Florentine: Because I.

238
00:26:36.780 --> 00:26:45.030
Justin Florentine: I did I did a bit of a proof of concept with dagger I ended up walking it back back in When did they do that maybe February January i'm not sure.

239
00:26:45.720 --> 00:26:52.530
Justin Florentine: But everything that I learned about it, I was pretty happy with and pretty committed to, and I would love to treat that as one of the mechanisms that we use to do that project.

240
00:26:55.320 --> 00:26:57.930
Danno Ferrin: We use dagger and had Tara and it's awesome.

241
00:26:58.680 --> 00:27:01.860
Justin Florentine: yeah I noticed that we're using in em tool as well.

242
00:27:02.640 --> 00:27:11.340
Danno Ferrin: mm hmm I didn't bring it into hedera another engineer brought it into hedera and they did a really good job, so I think it's yeah I think it's got great potential done right.

243
00:27:13.350 --> 00:27:13.650
Justin Florentine: Okay.

244
00:27:15.420 --> 00:27:31.230
Justin Florentine: So basically what i'm saying is all these these three things I think there is a through line of modular ization that kind of runs through them i'd like to find a way to visualize that through line and illustrate it so it tells a bit of a story for things that we want to do this year.

245
00:27:32.700 --> 00:27:33.150
Danno Ferrin: into.

246
00:27:35.100 --> 00:27:42.630
Danno Ferrin: A piece of the Doc in chat if people want to look at it do should I do that it's the basis space that's it's not less than speculative.

247
00:27:47.670 --> 00:27:48.420
Justin Florentine: sure.

248
00:27:49.770 --> 00:27:50.100
Danno Ferrin: Okay.

249
00:27:50.730 --> 00:27:50.910
Justin Florentine: i'm.

250
00:27:51.150 --> 00:27:52.230
Justin Florentine: down to let's do that.

251
00:27:59.280 --> 00:28:10.440
Justin Florentine: Okay, so then i'm going to give myself an action item to kind of reviews three things and who wants to be involved in that no I assume you want to be involved in that because you're kind of wrote that vision document.

252
00:28:11.070 --> 00:28:11.340
yeah.

253
00:28:13.020 --> 00:28:13.950
Justin Florentine: anyone else.

254
00:28:14.100 --> 00:28:19.590
Justin Florentine: i'll make sure that I kind of set up a session for us to kind of just noodles and ideas and.

255
00:28:20.250 --> 00:28:33.780
Justin Florentine: tighten things up a little bit i'm not i'm not imagining anything drastic or dramatic It really is just getting those three assets aligned towards there's probably going to be more daggers showing up in the code and there should be things like vertical Spikes.

256
00:28:35.070 --> 00:28:36.060
Justin Florentine: To.

257
00:28:36.720 --> 00:28:39.870
Justin Florentine: demonstrate how to go back and retrofit existing code to us.

258
00:28:41.550 --> 00:28:42.900
Gary Schulte: yeah sign me up for that as well.

259
00:28:44.400 --> 00:28:46.020
Karim T.: cool yes so.

260
00:28:47.640 --> 00:28:48.120
Justin Florentine: A cream.

261
00:28:48.210 --> 00:28:48.840
Right yes.

262
00:28:49.890 --> 00:28:51.360
jiri: me in many places.

263
00:28:53.130 --> 00:28:53.520
Justin Florentine: Yuri.

264
00:29:00.090 --> 00:29:00.660
Justin Florentine: Thanks all.

265
00:29:02.040 --> 00:29:09.330
Francesco Andreoli: awesome awesome awesome cool, so I think that's that's already there but efficient on the score, I think.

266
00:29:09.630 --> 00:29:21.600
Francesco Andreoli: You guys have any I don't know any comments on you know which channel, should we should we add on the base or that's an offer, should we like close some channels or how he's going with with this court is there anything that we should do.

267
00:29:25.110 --> 00:29:27.210
Gary Schulte: I think the channels have been working pretty well, they simply.

268
00:29:27.600 --> 00:29:29.100
Gary Schulte: yeah Google segmented.

269
00:29:30.840 --> 00:29:34.710
Gary Schulte: not sure i've used basic github yet, but the other ones are have been very useful.

270
00:29:36.240 --> 00:29:38.460
Justin Florentine: I find that particular channel way too noisy.

271
00:29:41.220 --> 00:29:51.210
Danno Ferrin: yeah I tried turning some stuff off, and I said I got people saying hey I do like that thing you turned off, so I turned it back on um, it is quite the fire hose um.

272
00:29:52.770 --> 00:29:56.460
Danno Ferrin: But I don't know how to reasonably segmented with the tools that we have and get up.

273
00:29:57.090 --> 00:29:57.570
Danno Ferrin: Because if you.

274
00:29:57.660 --> 00:29:59.130
Danno Ferrin: want go ahead.

275
00:29:59.880 --> 00:30:06.240
Justin Florentine: I was just gonna say it might be a personal thing for me and i'm just going to keep it muted and pipe in when I need to and it's okay to have a fire hose somewhere yep.

276
00:30:06.270 --> 00:30:13.320
Danno Ferrin: that's fine one of the things I really liked about it is when there's been changes like turning on branch protection attorney get off it shows up there.

277
00:30:13.830 --> 00:30:22.290
Danno Ferrin: And force pushes so from an admin perspective that's the bare minimum, I wanted their comments are nice to look at to see what's active, but it can become too noisy.

278
00:30:23.580 --> 00:30:29.310
Danno Ferrin: And I think we're at an inflection point it gets much more noisy it's going to be quite difficult to us but.

279
00:30:30.810 --> 00:30:40.230
Danno Ferrin: we'll see how it goes there but there's there's some key features in in that that I want left on so make sure that there's an audit trail and a hey look here something's happening trail.

280
00:30:43.650 --> 00:30:46.650
Danno Ferrin: I mean you can get that from the audit logs inside get hub itself but.

281
00:30:49.020 --> 00:30:51.360
Danno Ferrin: Having it more publicly visible increases trust, I think.

282
00:30:55.320 --> 00:30:59.220
Gary Schulte: yeah kind of want to, I want to put a filter on that fire hose for those few events.

283
00:31:06.870 --> 00:31:10.440
Francesco Andreoli: cool and speaking speaking on on discord like.

284
00:31:12.600 --> 00:31:20.130
Francesco Andreoli: You mentioned the off week discord voice chat I think watches are always working well, they just need to be like scheduled, so I don't know if.

285
00:31:21.180 --> 00:31:24.360
Francesco Andreoli: Anybody is interested in that that's that's a good idea.

286
00:31:25.530 --> 00:31:27.540
Justin Florentine: let's do it, we just got to pick a date and time.

287
00:31:30.540 --> 00:31:33.660
Justin Florentine: We are yeah we're we're going to use this same time on the off week.

288
00:31:38.100 --> 00:31:39.480
Danno Ferrin: let's do it let's start it.

289
00:31:41.040 --> 00:31:47.430
Danno Ferrin: You could also just join chat and hang out it's going to show that you're in there if you're listening so that's always an option to.

290
00:31:48.060 --> 00:31:54.120
Gary Schulte: get started, right after the central European summertime switch over That way we don't have the confusion like we did today.

291
00:31:55.680 --> 00:31:56.340
Danno Ferrin: Yes.

292
00:31:56.790 --> 00:31:57.450
Francesco Andreoli: This month yeah.

293
00:31:58.890 --> 00:32:02.370
Francesco Andreoli: sounds good so basically off time and bi weekly.

294
00:32:04.470 --> 00:32:05.460
yeah sounds good.

295
00:32:08.400 --> 00:32:14.400
Francesco Andreoli: cool and you want to speak on the deprecating log free to Jay Diego I don't know I guess.

296
00:32:16.920 --> 00:32:33.630
Diego López León: yeah sure yes um well, basically, I said a PR for changing look for a CIO or an for replacing it with no black and there were some comments about backward compatibility, mostly.

297
00:32:35.100 --> 00:32:46.170
Diego López León: On regardless of of supporting the overriding of external with external configurations of the forte look for shape.

298
00:32:47.100 --> 00:32:59.190
Diego López León: But in the middle, I don't know there were some concerns, maybe if it's I mean it makes sense to to replace the project too so maybe that's the open discussion here if we really want to.

299
00:32:59.640 --> 00:33:13.920
Diego López León: replace look present you with something else, my proposal was loved by because just I don't know it was like a natural path after my grading I mean I mean after introducing SLA for Jay but I don't know.

300
00:33:15.660 --> 00:33:21.360
Diego López León: So I think it's an open discussion here for me it's it's a good choice, I think.

301
00:33:22.380 --> 00:33:31.680
Diego López León: it's the original team that world look for Shay one, and I think there was some political thing in the middle, for them to to split.

302
00:33:32.760 --> 00:33:45.810
Diego López León: start creating log work but yeah and I think in in in the PR I can see it it's a few things that are simpler, like, for example.

303
00:33:46.770 --> 00:34:06.840
Diego López León: to detect the environment viable for overriding answer the colors on the output so yeah I think it's it's a PR that we both smoke more lines done those that introduce even if I added a few tests so yeah for me, it makes sense, but I don't know.

304
00:34:11.790 --> 00:34:25.590
Gary Schulte: that's one of those ones is kind of hard to get an answer to because it's we're probably only going to hear from the people who have that requirement, where the overriding the log for J configuration after they can no longer do it it's going to be like a reactive thing I imagined.

305
00:34:31.980 --> 00:34:41.220
jiri: bank didn't have like a release for like a very long time already, and they still need to support Jaguar 1.6 and older so.

306
00:34:42.420 --> 00:34:48.000
jiri: until at least two or something we are basically sitting ourselves.

307
00:34:49.650 --> 00:34:49.980
jiri: wants to.

308
00:34:51.030 --> 00:34:52.650
jiri: I don't mind i'm just highlighting that.

309
00:34:57.240 --> 00:34:59.010
Justin Florentine: We should look into that that's a pretty good point of true.

310
00:35:00.630 --> 00:35:00.930
yeah.

311
00:35:07.980 --> 00:35:12.630
Francesco Andreoli: This one is basically yeah looking will probably like we speak on the next call.

312
00:35:15.900 --> 00:35:19.680
Francesco Andreoli: cool and anybody has any other topics we want to raise.

313
00:35:25.980 --> 00:35:27.870
Gary Schulte: Anybody going to death connect Amsterdam.

314
00:35:30.300 --> 00:35:31.230
Justin Florentine: I am.

315
00:35:32.430 --> 00:35:33.930
Danno Ferrin: Not after international travel right now.

316
00:35:35.280 --> 00:35:36.120
Gary Schulte: makes good sense.

317
00:35:36.570 --> 00:35:37.440
Karim T.: Let me sorry.

318
00:35:39.750 --> 00:35:50.850
Francesco Andreoli: yeah on actually on this point where with with jt and the team were organizing a site event on on base when the merge they might be useful, like that we connect I think.

319
00:35:51.690 --> 00:36:03.000
Francesco Andreoli: As you carrion and justin with the would come like some proposal this week for for for supporting this side of and basically like maybe a panel on on base when the merge that might be.

320
00:36:04.110 --> 00:36:05.250
Francesco Andreoli: It might be cool if.

321
00:36:06.630 --> 00:36:11.370
Francesco Andreoli: If there are so many protocol people in a in Amsterdam, this this week.

322
00:36:14.310 --> 00:36:21.540
Francesco Andreoli: cool awesome so I guess, we can wrap up and yeah Thank you Thank you so much, and see you next time.

323
00:36:22.650 --> 00:36:23.370
Nicolas Massart: Thanks everyone.

324
00:36:23.550 --> 00:36:23.940
Thanks.

