# 2019-09-04 Onboarding call

## Date

04 Sep 2019

## Attendees

- [Ry Jones](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850?ref=confluence)
- [David Huseby](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c81ef6e187e8e0b95b0b1e9?ref=confluence)
- [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence)
- [Silona Bonewald](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:60ad7903-c627-4d15-ac02-e45d3098bd8e?ref=confluence)
- [Joshua Fernandes](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5cf5aa4b757e4b0f2636cd4c?ref=confluence)
- [Rob Dawson](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/557058:6f4f226a-0930-4ae1-a338-2170d9d352f1?ref=confluence)
- [Edward Evans](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/557058:c2435e85-0c12-4b82-a823-78b1de8b4969?ref=confluence)
- [Brett Henderson](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c32f3fcc5484b691dd2c9f0?ref=confluence)
- [Madeline Murray (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5ba1f073ef78ff2f8f4ba6d3?ref=confluence)

## Goals

- Description: answer any questions for on boarding Besu
- 4\. What other tools/actions am I missing to make sure we're onboarded on appropriately and can quickly move to Active status

## Discussion items

| Time | Item | Who | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     | CI Tools | [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence) | - I know our team has been involved in the discussions in the RocketChat channel. I think they have further questions. |
|     | Repo Switch | [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence) | We are targeting having our final Pantheon release on our September 10th repo, and we then need the new Besu repo set up prior to the 1.3 Release Candidate scheduled for September 25th. |
|     | RocketChat / Mailing list best practices | [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence) | Mailing list; Distribute Release updates/notes, send schedule/invite for maintainer meeting and notes<br><br>Community Calendar - Post our Maintainer meeting invite there<br><br>One maintainer meeting and one application developer meeting <br><br>Send welcome email to community once repo is  up |
|     | What other tools/actions am I missing to make sure we're onboarded on appropriately and can quickly move to Active status | [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence) | Members for Security list [David Huseby](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c81ef6e187e8e0b95b0b1e9?ref=confluence)<br><br>Security Audit?<br><br>Documentation - > Overview page on wiki |
|     | GitHub team management | [Ry Jones](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850?ref=confluence) |     |

## Action items

- [ ] [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence)I need two volunteer email addresses to add to the [security@hyperledger.org](mailto:security@hyperledger.org) team. It's a very light traffic list but each team is expected to contribute a primary and secondary volunteer who can handle helping triage incoming security issues with all projects and can also help resolve any incoming security issues on Besu.
- [ ] [Grace Hartley (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5c3e0cd1ff324728a1db2448?ref=confluence) If Besu is looking at going to active status ASAP, then we need to kick off a security audit of the code base. I am in the process of refreshing our vendors for security audits and would like somebody on the Besu team to help me write a proposal to send out to a few vendors for bids.