# 2025-03-18 Contributor Call

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded, transcribed, and machine summarized
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature

Agenda.

- Modularity work (Matt W)
  - Present possible approach to removing BFT consensus for core codebase
  - Get enough agreement to continue work on pulling it out into a separate repo
- Bonsai archive state proofs (Matt W)
  - Update on progress with short overview of the design
  - Maybe demo?
- Deprecation work (Matt W/Bhanu)
  - Update on items & progress (privacy, PoW, fastsync)
- Misc enterprise updates (Matt W/Bhanu)
  - Quorum IBFT → Besu QBFT migration
  - History expiry for BFT chains
- Project infrastructure
  - Documentation tooling: Making use of Docusaurus and Vercel instead of GH pages
  - Reducing noise on Discord: Thoughts on replacing the general Besu channel with “besu-questions-mainnet” and “besu-questions-permissioned” so that maintainers focused on mainnet don’t get questions about permissioned Besu and vice versa
  - Community calls and getting the recordings on YouTube: Confirming about recent calendar changes with the LFDT migration and discussing how recordings get posted to YouTube
  - Future plans for developer docs in this wiki.
    - We’re not adamant about any particular solution but we do want to preserve our existing content in the same place that new content goes.