00:04:16	Grace Hartley:	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/BESU/2021-12-21+Besu+Contributor+Call
00:04:26	Grace Hartley:	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=62232351
00:07:03	Gary Schulte:	https://hackmd.io/A_iqjtVQRjSL4M9mLa0ncg?view
00:26:49	Justin Florentine:	T3.xl
00:33:22	Rai:	Karen feeding?
00:33:32	Gary Schulte:	Care and Feeding
00:33:59	Justin Florentine:	Karmis bonsai full node  is a i3.xlarge with 500gb 1500iops
00:34:15	Gary Schulte:	üôè
00:38:24	Jiri Peinlich:	even with dao you would need to decide how to distribute the tokens fairly which is basically the same question as who should get the grant, isn't it?
00:38:32	Gary Schulte:	right
00:39:18	Gary Schulte:	But at least that can be a political will/consensus exercise instead of Consensys being a trustee
00:47:22	Jiri Peinlich:	I am really new
00:47:25	Jiri Peinlich:	2 months
00:49:36	Danno Ferrin:	Lets go to Discord.  Today.
00:49:45	Gary Schulte:	üôè
00:50:23	Danno Ferrin:	I think at least two votes will on the TSC will go easy on us if we go early.
00:52:57	Gary Schulte:	Grace would you reiterate the 3 proposed action items?
00:53:04	Gary Schulte:	Discord, roadmap calls, and ?
00:54:42	Gary Schulte:	Good ,etric
00:55:05	Rai:	Ry jones*
00:57:04	Gary Schulte:	I think that could be a big win if we do it well
00:58:15	Rai:	Gotta jump
01:01:21	Antoine Toulme:	Still no idea who gets tokens and how and when
01:02:41	Antoine Toulme:	I don‚Äôt understand
01:03:00	Antoine Toulme:	We had time months ago, what did we do?
01:03:35	Devon Artis:	Thank you
01:03:45	Devon Artis:	Have  a good one
01:03:50	Jiri Peinlich:	happy new year
