# 2023-06-06 Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09](https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09))

EMEA Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230412T160000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230412T160000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 9 am Tuesday Los Angeles time
- 12 am Tuesday New York time
- 18h Tuesday Paris time

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - Q2 Report due
  - CIP update
- **Release updates**
  -  23.4.1 released - txpool
  - Tuweni release and org discussion
- **Work Updates**
  - Discussion of consensus mechanism plug-ins/modularity →
    - Miro → [https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMCPHPfg=/?share\_link\_id=795349574835](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVMCPHPfg=/?share_link_id=795349574835) (Password: hyperledger)
    - [Modularity Review](../../../../besu/design-documents/modular-besu/modularity-implementation-approach.md)
  - Technical documentation requests → 
    - Trie-log shipping
    - Plug-ins and new updates to the features
    - EVM library 
    - More ![(question)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/s/1449019483/6452/ae2804514f9cd9ed0d0281971dae9dc8f3187953/_/images/icons/emoticons/help_16.png)
  - Deprecation and future removal of the Forest world state pruning [https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/public-networks/reference/cli/options/#pruning-enabled](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/public-networks/reference/cli/options/#pruning-enabled)
- **Other Business**
  - REPEAT: RFC - [Proposal: Avoid Cherry-Picked Releases](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Proposal%3A+Avoid+Cherry+Picked+Releases) - added *Suggested Deprecation Policy*
    - Discussed on last call: [2023-05-23 Contributor Call - APAC Friendly Time](../2023-agendas/2023-05-23-contributor-call-apac-friendly-time.md) 
    - Responses/questions about last US/EU call's comments are in the doc "Discussion" (copied from Discord), so far unanswered
    - Replacing quarterly cycle with an adequate deprecation notification policy would be a good first step.
    - Can use feature branches for most partial/risky features
    - Might add some overhead in some cases. More effort to test upfront or break up the PR.
    - "Avoid" does not mean "never", just prefer release from main by default.
- **Metrics Review -** [https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger/besu/dashboard;quicktime=time\_filter\_3Y](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger%2Fbesu/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y)
- **Open Forum**
- **Future Topics**

  

**Recording**

[https://youtu.be/j0pcAhu-sxA](https://youtu.be/j0pcAhu-sxA)