# 2023-03-14 Contributor Call

(Meeting Link: ⁨[https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09](https://zoom.us/j/97540031823?pwd=dEJrRW1LakFlWnZPelI3VGxoVjg2dz09))

EMEA Friendly Time ([https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220607T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220607T150000&p1=224&p2=179&p3=1440&p4=195&p5=47))

- 8 am Tuesday Los Angeles time
- 11 am Tuesday New York time
- 17h Tuesday Paris time

**Agenda**

-  **Housekeeping**
  - Antitrust notice - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy/)
  - This meeting is being recorded
  - Please Mute unless speaking
  - If you have a question use the raise hand feature
- **General Announcements**
  - CI update([Matt Nelson (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6092a453afcdb700691fdc3b?ref=confluence) )
    - End of April is covered
  - DCO issues from [Sally MacFarlane](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5a98a5f381617c2a79536306?ref=confluence) 
    - merging to main, need more clarification
      - being resolved
  - GitHub Merge Queue - is enabled (after a false start with DCO) - shout out in contributors channel if you have issues. More info here [GitHub Merge Queue](../../../../besu/developing-and-conventions/archive-dev/github-merge-queue.md)
    - merging not ready to go ([Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence) )
    - [https://github.blog/changelog/2022-08-23-new-options-for-controlling-the-default-commit-message-when-merging-a-pull-request/](https://github.blog/changelog/2022-08-23-new-options-for-controlling-the-default-commit-message-when-merging-a-pull-request/) from [Gary Schulte](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6047b948b020eb00684030b6?ref=confluence) 
  - Bonsai refactoring from [Karim Taam](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:595ffa36-5d5e-40b6-b7f0-b39c13201928?ref=confluence) . PR here: [https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/5123](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu/pull/5123)
- **Release updates**
  - **[Gary Schulte](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6047b948b020eb00684030b6?ref=confluence)** 
    - bonsai refactor
    - fixes on internal error, [Fabio Di Fabio](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6159b647d9820f0070942aa5?ref=confluence) 
- **Work Updates**
  - [Shanghai planning](../../../../besu/performance-stability/q4-2022-stability-and-performance-improvements/shanghai-planning.md) update
- **Other Business**  
  - Roadmap input for the new planning phase ([Matt Nelson (Deactivated)](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6092a453afcdb700691fdc3b?ref=confluence) )
  - Postman API docs site 404, [https://api.besu.hyperledger.org/](https://api.besu.hyperledger.org/), raised by [Diego Lopez Leon](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/557058:19da2f91-70fa-497e-bf19-8ae7684f93a8?ref=confluence) 
    - no alternatives mentioned
    - we gonna circle back with the option of Consensys paying and following up with docs
    - [Gary Schulte](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/6047b948b020eb00684030b6?ref=confluence) to volunteer to take the postman action item
  - Circle-CI billing cycle and contract ends Mar 17.  Need to get ahead of this to prevent build outages.
  - Contributor Call timing - [Danno Ferrin](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/5b7f2d80c4e4892a5b789551?ref=confluence) requests to either move the meeting out an hour or two or to go to 8 hour meeting rotations, or even changing the days of the week.
    - action team: [Francesco Andreoli](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/610104864e8d8d0069291688?ref=confluence) to move the meeting 1h later
  - inversion of control / decoupling - discussion from [Justin Florentine](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/people/712020:71871f91-9632-4415-9d78-780eb53fd275?ref=confluence) 
    - PR coming in the next weeks
- **Metrics Review -** [https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger/besu/dashboard;quicktime=time\_filter\_3Y](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/hyperledger%2Fbesu/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y)
- **Roadmap Review - [Roadmap](https://lf-hyperledger.atlassian.net/wiki/display/BESU/Roadmap) - roadmap pending proposal and discussion**
- **Open Forum - skipped**
- **Future Topics - skipped**

### Recording

[https://youtu.be/drc4sKJSQzw](https://youtu.be/drc4sKJSQzw)

    **|     | File | Modified |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Labels<br><br>- No labels<br>- [Edit Labels](#)<br><br>[Preview] [View](/wiki/download/attachments/22156131/GMT20230314-150034_RecordingnewChat.txt?version=1) [Properties](/wiki/pages/editattachment.action?pageId=22156131&fileName=GMT20230314-150034_RecordingnewChat.txt&isFromPageView=true) [Delete](/wiki/pages/confirmattachmentremoval.action?pageId=22156131&fileName=GMT20230314-150034_RecordingnewChat.txt) | Text File [GMT20230314-150034\_RecordingnewChat.txt](/wiki/download/attachments/22156131/GMT20230314-150034_RecordingnewChat.txt?api=v2) | Mar 14, 2023 by [Ry Jones](/wiki/people/557058:078cecfc-fb17-4d9a-8759-b5b74efa6850) |

- Drag and drop to upload or [browse for files] ![](/wiki/images/icons/wait.gif)

Upload file 

File description**